Hey, good morning everyone. Let's begin today's class.

So with that talk, we move on to a new topic, which is a little different from the previous

finding similar items topic, which was relying on the locality sensor pattern. So I guess

plus 3 is more easier and more intuitive topic to understand. And this is the first part.

So before we go to the advanced versions, we now briefly discuss the basic things like

the basic problem setup and basic methods for the cluster. So I guess today would be

like not hard to follow compared to the previous class. So just a few announcements. There's

word one out. Please keep in mind the deadline is later on and the word two will be posted

on the same page from the deadline. And in terms of the languages, I guess you should

use English for assignments. That's because for writing an assignment, you have some time.

And in fact, recently, AI is really good for translating our Korean thing into English.

So I don't think that would be a problem for you to write something in English as long

as you can find it. And because our class is officially on English, I guess writing

something in English does not matter to you. But for example, because we have a very limited

time for doing the exam and since most of you are Korean, it is okay to use Korean for

the exam. So please keep in mind the language restriction rule first. And we have created

a new board called lectures on VDL. So you are free to ask any questions regarding lectures.

For instance, you might find some typos on lecture slides or you think some things are

wrong or you think some things are unclear. So please feel free to ask any questions on

the lectures board. But of course, you are free to ask anything in classes at the same

time. So you're just free to ask anything. And as I said, so we will still keeping the

participation score, which is the 2% overall rate, overall score, which is not a big matter

to you. And I don't think that would be something you really should take care of for

upgrading your grade. But it's just there. So if you have something in mind, you don't have to feel

like, I mean, you are okay to ask anything on ETL.

All right. So let's just do a little bit of recap of what we have just learned. So we have learned

some basic understanding on locality-sensitive hygiene for finding similar documentaries.

So instead of focusing on the technique, we cover some theoretical background on LSH, like how to

understand the bending technique in a more general way, like the combined V-and and

O-re constructions, or how can we define this locality-sensitive family, and how can we

extend our technique to other distance measures, like the angular distance, which is using the

random type of plane technique instead of the mean hashing for creating your signatures.

And in terms of understanding these things, we also saw ESPR, which determines how good

our function is compared to the discrete unit step function. And you even also learned that

these two regions, like here and here, define different types of errors, like the false

negative errors and false positive errors. So I guess you quite understood the things discussed

in the last time. So any questions? No? Great. So as I said, I don't think today will be hard.

Very basic introduction of what clustering is and what would be the simple ways to do clustering.

So what is clustering? I guess you have heard the name clustering from some documents.

Clustering is basically a process of grouping a collection of points into clusters. It's basically

grouping. So let's say we have some student information. Let's say I want to cluster

your information in this classroom. Then probably I can say some students are, like for instance,

from some high schools, some students are from some departments, there will be some rules or

there will be some strategies to make a great group of yours. Right? The clustering is basically

to make a good group that can separate different types of points in the space. So our basic

expectation for clustering is the members of the same cluster should be close to each other or

similar to each other. But at the same time, members from different clusters should be

dissimilar from each other, which is the major assumption of grouping that we think of. And we

put this on cases when data is very large, bi-dimensional, non-equal, and can be defined

to any user. Because as I say multiple times, if the data is very small and if the space is

low dimensional, then the clustering task is very easy to do. But if we grow the size of the data or

the size of the number of dimensionality to like the many thousands or even millions, then the

problem becomes very not straightforward to solve. So that's the basic goal of our whole course,

right? Data mining. So let's first think about the distance measure. Because this is like, sorry,

let me go back to the previous slide. So when we solve some problems, the most important thing is

to define the problem. So here we use a term like close, similar, or dissimilar. Then if we want to

solve that problem, then we should need to define what a closeness is, what the similarity is, right?

Because that's a basic thing we need to do before designing an algorithm. So I guess we should first

think about the distance measure. Because the distance measure gives some notion of the

similarity between points in the space. So I guess we can recall the four requirements for

a distance measure that was covered in the previous time, like the triangle,

the property, and the non-neutrality like that, I guess you remember. So first of all,

you can think about the equilibrium space. The popular distance measures include the equilibrium

distance, Manhattan distance, L0 distance, or L infinity distance. You don't have to memorize

these things. I just want to cover there can be various ways to find distances between points.

Although in many cases, we often use only equilibrium distance, which is a basic distance

measure. But based on the characteristic of data or based on our specific goal, we can

use our distance measures without worrying about whether they are correct or not.

So let's think of an example. I mean, it's always good to look at an example. So let's see that we

have a two-dimensional space. We don't know what the dimensions would represent, but we still have

two dimensions. And let's say we have some points. And I guess it's natural to think of this three

clusters based on how they are distributed in the space. And we also find some outliers, like this

one or that one. So we can create clusters to include these outliers as well. So for instance,

we can increase the size of the circle in this way. But I don't think that would be a good cluster

because it's certainly an outlier which is separated from all other points. So when we want to do a good

clustering, then we sometimes care about this outlier. Because if you try to create clusters

that include all the points in the space, then the quality of these clusters might be worse than

this person. So in data mining, we call the test to find such outliers as outlier detection

or unvalid detection, which is basically a different problem from clustering. So clustering

itself does not care about these outliers in many cases because finding outliers is itself a difficult

problem. So these clustering and outlier detection are sometimes interchangeable. Sometimes they're

just created with the same thing, but sometimes they are not the same. So in most cases,

outliers focus on clustering, not outlier detection. But depending on algorithms, some algorithms

naturally can detect an outlier. So you should keep in mind that.

So then let's think about another example. Let's think about documents.

We have some ways to represent the document as a vector, as I introduced. We can basically apply

a case shingles and represent the document as a binary vector or set. Or we can apply a tf-idea

thing to represent the vector as a real-world vector. Or we can even apply an LLM or advanced

machine learning or deep learning to represent each document. But anyway, here we simply represent

a document as a binary vector where each element is one if and only if the I word appears in the

document. So in this case, I have one of the simplest ways to define a document vector.

Then our idea is our idea of clustering, our motivation to do clustering is documents with

similar words are about the same topic. So our task is to define clustered development,

okay, if the document is a point. So this whole thing looks similar to our previous topic about

finding similar documents. But if you think about it, our similar topic was about finding document

pairs, similar document pairs. And because we care about similar document pairs, we more think about

how to reduce the quadratic complexity to almost linear complexity and how to define the similarity

between two documents. But here our goal is more broad. We care more about making clusters, so it

is okay for us to make it wrong or right for some individual document pairs. We care about more

broad and more coarse-grained clustering in terms of the document. So even though these two tasks

look similar, but how we approach these problems and how we design our algorithms is a little bit

different from LSH and this quality. Okay. And as I said, it is important for us to do,

like it is important when we approach the clustering to define a distance vector,

because a different distance vector leads us to a different clustering, of course,

a more different result of clustering. So let's think about the document example.

So even though we have many ways to represent the document, not even though, like because of that,

we have many ways to define this. For instance, let's say our document is a set, then you can

understand the document which is represented as a set as a vector. So if we understand this

document as a vector, then probably we can measure similarity by cosine distance, which is the vector

distance vector, or angular distance as we call it. Or if you understand documents as sets, then

probably you can measure similarity by the draw-par distance, which is good. Or if we understand the

document as points, then probably we can measure the distance between the equilibrium distance.

So what I want to say is, based on how we understand the data, based on what properties of data we

should really focus on, we can choose a decent proper distance vector. And you might understand

that there is no answer in that. It's just our design choice. So let's look at another example

of the two-dimensional space. Let's say we want to cluster some dogs into some species. I don't know

if these are real species or not, but let's say some height, like Jindo, Umsan, Chaksar.

So if you want to, here let's assume that the x-axis is the weight of a dog and the y-axis is

the height. Then in the two-dimensional space, even everyone in this room, even a human,

even though he is not a programmer, we can easily cluster these points just by looking at this point.

So in fact, clustering is a very intuitive task even for humans, and it seems like we don't need

a sophisticated algorithm to do clustering. We can look at how they are distributed.

But the main problem is, as long as the dimensionality is small, as long as it's

a two-dimensional space, I guess it is okay to have many points. Because even though we have

hundreds of points or thousands of points still, just by looking at the two-dimensional space,

we can understand how they are distributed. So then we can easily draw a decision boundary

between these clusters, and we can also determine the number of clusters to be introduced to the

space. But the problem is the curse of dimensionality. The problem is, if the data becomes a

high-dimensional point or high-dimensional vector, then it is really, really hard for us to create

meaningful clusters. Let's just think about these three examples. If the points are on the

one-dimensional line, then it's either easier for us compared to the dimensional space. But if it

goes to the dimensional space, four-dimensional, or even a hundred-dimensional space, it becomes

nearly impossible for humans to do clustering ourselves. And a more theoretical or more

mathematical limitation that comes from the high-dimensional space is the curse of dimensionality,

which I will say in the following slide. So what this curse of dimensionality means is,

it's like a phenomenon that happens in the high-dimensional space, which says that

almost all pairs of points are equally far away from one another. What does that mean? It means,

for instance, if you look at the one-dimensional space, and let's say, so okay, if you look at this

example, there are 11 points, and these 11 points create, where is that white line?

These 11 points create like 11 times 10 divided by two possible distances between each other.

Then we can probably create a distribution of distances like this normal distribution.

Probably it will follow some kind of normal distribution. So let's say we can point all

these possible distances between pairs of points, and then it will create some density distribution

of the distances. And here we look at the variance of these distances. So if the variance is large,

that means probably there are some pairs that are close to each other, there are some pairs that are

far from each other. Then this variance of the distances between possible pairs of points

lets us understand the quality of clustering, because if the SIC item variance is large,

probably it means there are more easy clusters to be defined. So what this first of dimension

limit means is this variance is decreasing fast if the dimension limit increases.

So let me show you the next slide for your understanding.

Okay, so let's consider the two random points in the nth dimensional unit hypercube. You know

what a hypercube is? A hypercube is a cube, basically a cube, where its line is from zero to

one. So it's like the, you know, right there, right? So the size of the unit hypercube is the same,

even though we created the dimension limit, but it's just a simple definition of the space.

And one thing important to note is the variance of the distances, as I showed here,

the variance of the distances between period of points goes to a constant when the dimension

will be goes to infinity. It does not follow the dimensionality, it goes to a constant,

which is a severe problem. So if you look at this distribution, as the n increases,

as the dimensionality increases, the variance decreases sharply. So that means almost all the

points in the unit hypercube are close to each other by a similar amount. It means it is almost

impossible to create a good cluster from a bad cluster. Let's suppose that n is 2,500. So that

means in our data set, every sample or every document is represented as a vector of size 2,500.

Then if we really compute the distance between any pair in the 2,500 dimensional hypercube,

the distance can be anything between 0 and 50, 50 is maximum possible distance in the unit hypercube

in that high dimensional space. But if you really draw possible distances between random points,

then we see that most distances are just in the 20 and 21. That means, as I said, if you look at

the distribution, all the points look like they are gathered into a very small circular shape,

even though the space is large. So the dimensionality makes it hard to visually look at the space,

at the same time makes it hard to design a good distance measure or a good photorecord rhythm,

because the distances are almost similar between each other. Any questions? Great.

So, okay, so this graph is not hard to understand. So xx is the distance. So you can,

this figure is almost the same as this figure. If we pick two random points in that unit hypercube,

then this distribution is like a pdf of the distance between two points, or the density of

the distance between two points. So, or we can think that we create a lot of points and you can

actually compute the distance between points and create this empirical density estimation from the

distances. So it goes to right, because the space becomes larger as we increase the

dimensionality. Okay, because the maximum possible distance decreases as we increase the

dimensionality. But the variance becomes smaller and smaller and smaller as we, as this plot goes

to the right side. So what this figure means is the same as the claim showed in this slide.

As we increase the dimensionality, the possible range of distances increases,

but the variance of actual expected distances decreases. Okay. More questions?

Okay, so this first of dimensionality is our main topic for this course. This is just to introduce

that clustering is not that easy in the high dimensional space. Okay, so until the previous

slide, we covered most of the basic introduction of clustering. So let's think about some basic

strategies to do clustering, because clustering, unlike LSH, doing clustering itself is not hard.

I mean, doing good clustering is hard, but doing clustering itself is not that hard. For instance,

we think about two basic categories of clustering strategies. The first is the

hierarchical and another is point assignment. Hierarchical clustering means we list all the

points in our space A, B, C, D, like any other here, this is a point. And you can create some

tree, like a tree that combines similar points or close points in the space in one spot. So that is

basically a hierarchical approach. So if you think about the Atom Bomb approach or

in a hardware, the home rocket approach, initially we start with every point. And let's say we compare

the distances between all parallel points and we gather two close points in one step. And then

after one step, we say these points are in the same cluster. And we do that again and again

until there is one cluster remaining in the space. Then we can simply create a threshold to stop.

For instance, if we stop at that point, then we get two clusters where the first cluster is A, B,

the second cluster is A, C, D, D, F. So this is a simple approach. It makes sense. And at the same

time, you can also do it top down. We start from a single cluster and we can divide the points

so that they are far from each other as much as they can from the top to the bottom. So they are

basically two ways to do hierarchical clustering. And another strategy is to point assignment. It does not

create a tree like that. It just creates clusters directly from the space. So I will explain

specifically how to operate them. Let me compare these two big strategies they have called the

clumps. So point assignment, because it doesn't create a complicated tree, it doesn't follow a

complicated iterations. In many cases, it's fast and efficient. And it's good when the clusters

have nice shapes. For instance, if the clusters look like the left one, we know that the centers

of the clusters are very far from each other. So probably almost all point assignment operations

will work well on the point on the space shown on the left-hand side of this line. But the problem is

if the clusters look weird, like on the right side. For instance, here we have two clusters. We,

like humans, know that there are two clusters, but their centers are basically the same. So we

feel like some point assignment operations, although we didn't cover about algorithms are there

and in the community, it's hard to find the three clusters because they look like similar to point

assignment operations. But if you apply a hierarchical method like the bottom-up approach, which works by

comparing the pair of points from the bottom to the top, then probably it will be able to detect

these two different clusters. Because the hierarchical approach does not care about the shape of the

cluster. It just cares about the distance between points. But it is okay, right? Sometimes it's a

weird shape cluster for hierarchical approaches. Okay.

Okay. So, and we also care about space. So every space, I can say, can be divided into basically

a Euclidean space and a non-Euclidean space. So in most cases, we care about only the Euclidean space,

but if we really don't do the cluster well, then we also need to think about the non-Euclidean space.

So this is not a math class. So I am not that interested in the mathematical property of the

Euclidean or non-Euclidean space. I want to just give you some intuition. So in the Euclidean space,

points are basically vectors of real numbers, or we can say they are four.

So in the Euclidean space, there is no problem at all to summarize the set of points as a centroid.

If we are given like a 10 points or 100 points, we can always create a center that summarizes

all these points in the center. But here, there is no matter to be anything defined on the Euclidean

space like L2, L1, Euclidean, and anything else. Okay. But the problem is, if we go to a non-Euclidean

space, we can say there is no notion of location or centroid. Because in a non-Euclidean space,

it is really hard to define a good center point. I mean, there the typical distance,

the concept of distances in our mind does not work in a non-Euclidean space. Because here,

we can say there are points in the space, but it's really hard to do some arithmetic operations

between these clusters in the non-Euclidean space. So in the non-Euclidean space, we should

summarize the collection of points differently than the Euclidean space. And this makes the

problem a little bit harder. And many examples, like let's think about the JAPA algorithms.

Basically, sets are, well, if you think about sets as binary vector in the Euclidean space,

then it's okay. But if you understand the sets themselves, like if we don't want to map these

representations of documents into Euclidean space, then you should think more about

what this has measured and how to define, how to summarize the collection of points in different

matters. So why is that? As I said, this is not a mathematical state, mathematical class, so I will

just show you this here. So finding the center points is difficult in the Euclidean space,

because how the space is organized or how the points are distributed in a space

is really not consistent in the non-Euclidean space. So if you're not good at math, you can

simply think that creating a summary of points, creating a center of the points is basically very

hard for a non-Euclidean space. That makes a difference. Because, let me go to this side,

comparing clusters is easier when we can define their centers. For instance, if we want to compute

the distance between two clusters, then if you can pick one center here, one center here, then the

comparison becomes a little straightforward. But if we are hard to define the centers of clusters in

the non-Euclidean space, then as I said, it's a little bit harder to define the distance between

the two clusters. And this is the last one. So among the algorithms that we're going to cover,

like probably for the next part, the second part of the cluster, there are two basic

algorithms. One is on memory cluster, which is easy because all the data can be in memory. But

if the data are not able to be fitted in memory, then you should store data on this. And here,

the problem is the disk passes, which is the same as the finite-free finite instance. If the data is

on data, on disk, then you should design a different algorithm that does not require the

full data loaded at once in memory. So we will cover some algorithms on the second part, which

does not require the data fully loaded in memory, like the VCR, VFR, and fewer algorithms are

popular by large data cluster methods. Okay, so today we will cover only the in-memory cluster.

There is not a big challenge for studying the memory cluster methods, which are simple.

So that's the reason why I say that they would not be that difficult to understand.

Any questions? No? Great. Okay, then let's learn two basic ways to do cluster entry.

Hierarchical clustering and K-means clustering, both of which are really simple.

So let's look at the hierarchical clustering. So as its name implies, the key operation is to create

such a tree of points by repeatedly merging two nearest points or questions. So then let's say

that you are a engineer. You are an engineer that needs to design your own hierarchical clustering

and bulletin as a worker at some company, like Samsung, for instance. Then there are some design

questions that are in virtual dress, like how to represent the cluster, how to determine the

nearness, how to define the nearness of clusters, or when to stop merging clusters. So let's

answer these questions together. Okay, so in the Euclidean case, if the space is Euclidean, then

our answers are straightforward in most cases. So the first question is how to represent a cluster

of many points. So as we are on the Euclidean space, we can probably merge clusters and we

represent the location of each cluster by its center. Like the simple algorithm state of

what is just okay to do in the Euclidean space. Then if you represent every cluster as its

centroid, the following question is how can we determine the nearness of clusters? Then I mean

it is also an easy question, right? Because we have the centroid of clusters, we can measure

cluster distances by the distances between their centers. And probably we can merge two clusters

with the shortest distance, which is good, right? But as you can say, so this thing, if we represent

a cluster as a centroid, let me go back to a previous slide, then it's hard for us to

create such different clusters. So a design choice is related to what clusters that can be captured

or what clusters that cannot be captured. So even though we do hierarchical cluster, as long as we

present this cluster as its center, probably our algorithm would not be able to detect it to different

clusters. Anyway, I just wanted to make sure. So at least in the Euclidean space, if we

represent the cluster as its centroid and if we define the distance between clusters as

centroid distances, then everything becomes really easy and straightforward. So let's look at an

example. We are on the dimensional space and we have six different points. And here is the

dendrogram of like the three clusters of six points. And okay, let's follow the slide one by one.

First, we, so what is the first thing we need to do? We need to compare every pair of

points in the space. So here are six points, so we should do like six times five divided by two

comparisons, and we need to find the closest pair of points. And here are the two closest pairs of

points. And then it creates two different clusters, the blue one and the green one. And they create two

different centriques which become new representatives of these clusters. So here is our dendrogram and

at this point we have four different clusters where two of them are singleton clusters.

Then we do it again by combining the blue cluster with the red one and the green cluster with the

yellow one to be the cluster. And it changes the locations of their centriques because, obviously

because these new clusters contain a different point. Then we create the final single cluster

that summarizes all these clusters. So it depends on us when to stop. If we stop here,

then here's the cluster. If we stop here, then we get four clusters. So the our main question is to

determine when to stop. But before we move on, let's think about these efficiencies.

So if you are a good computer scientist, then at this point just by hearing how this algorithm

works, you might think about efficiency of this algorithm. Because at each step, we should compute

distances between all possible pairs of clusters, which creates very inefficient running time. Because

every all-pair comparison is basically n-squared. And it goes to m-1-squared, m-2-squared. So

it creates a cubic complexity, which is a problem. Our whole bucket for finding singleton items was

about reducing this quadratic complexity to linear. But here the complexity is cubic, which

is really a big problem if the number of data points is large. But the problem is, at least we

want to do this hierarchical clustering, there is no way to avoid this high complexity. No natural

way to avoid this high complexity. So we can make it better by using a priority queue. So if you

learn, if you take the class of data structure, then you know what the priority queue is. There

are many ways to implement the priority queue, like as a tree or as a set. But this is a great

data structure for prior typing elements. So if we had a priority queue, we define a score

for every element. And we can dequeue from this priority queue, which has the largest or the

highest score based on how we define the score. So you know this priority queue, it doesn't support

like the random access of the points, but it allows us to get the highest score point in a very

efficient time, like almost in a constant time or for a low linear time, low time. So if we implement

this priority queue, we can at least make the complexity n squared times log n, which is better

than cubic of n, but still the complexity is not satisfactory. So why is it better? I mean, because

the priority queue is better than correct. So that's just it. But the problem is, what I wanted to

say is, as long as we combine pairs of points, we cannot avoid this high complexity. And that's the

reason why almost all algorithms in practice are implemented based on point assignment methods,

which are directly finding clusters from the points distributed in space. The hierarchical

clustering, although it's simple, it is not that efficient to implement in practice.

Any questions so far? Yeah.

And entry of queue becomes from the pair of points?

Yeah, pair of points or like the distance between points.

And for already obligated points, we can

store some sets that are...

Yeah, I mean, you're correct. So as we merge points in the space, we replace the point,

like the point distance is the priority queue with the cluster distances. So I guess it was a

good point. The priority queue, we don't store elements, that's all. We store distances between

a pair of elements or a pair of clusters. Is that your question?

Yes. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So I mean, I introduced this priority queue thing, but honestly,

this is not the main focus of this class because I mean, even with the priority queue, the algorithm

is still slow. So that's the reason why I cannot talk much about the priority queue in our class,

because as I said, our class is not a data structure class. I will just assume that

you know a little bit about priority queue. Work that sense? Great. Great.

Okay. Then let's go to the world of a non-nuclear space. In a non-nuclear space, as I said,

the only locations we can talk about are the points themselves. Basically, it is not allowed

to create a new synthetic point that summarizes a cluster. So the questions are the same, basically,

as before. How to represent a cluster and how to determine the nearest cluster. And you can

consider that any algorithm designed for a non-equal space can also be used in the equilibrium space

because non-equal space, you can say a non-equal space has more restrictions designed on it.

So we can always apply something studied in the non-equal space to an equilibrium space.

I mean, it would be not all, but at least most of the cases, it is okay.

So in a non-equal space, the question is how to represent the cluster. So here,

because we've not created a new centroid, we can probably pick a close rate. What is a close rate?

Close rate is basically an existing point, which is the closest to all the other points. So it is

basically different from centroid because it's not a synthetic. It is just a point that we pick

because it's the best point existing in the cluster to represent the cluster.

And for doing that, we should define the meaning of inclusives in the statement. For instance,

the inclusives can mean the smallest maximum distance or the average distance to all other points.

For instance, probably we can create any points in the added cluster. Let's say we have

six points. So because in the non-equal space, it is hard to collectively compare the

vocations of these points. So what we want to do is, let's say we, from our visual understanding,

probably this would be a close rate. And based on how we define the close rate,

let's say we compute the average distance to all other points. Then this point creates

five distances with others. And the one, two, three, four, five, the average distances that we create

the, for instance, the i. And for this one, we can also create all the possible distances

between other points and this will create the dj. So if di is smaller than dj, then we pick di as

a close rate. So it is a representative point that shows the best shape of the cluster. And if you

pick the smallest maximum distance as the meaning of the close rate, then it becomes a little

different because we only care about the maximum distance. But here, for this point, the maximum

distance would be between this and that. For this one, the maximum distance would be between

this and that. So we compare these two distances and take one as a close rate.

And if we pick the close rate, then the following question is the same as

the central. We can consider close rate as a representative of the cluster. So we can

determine the distances between the close rates. So I mean, it's intuitive to compare the

centuries and close rates. So I guess centuries is better than close rate in most cases,

at least in the Euclidean space, because centuries is a better center of the cluster.

But the close rate, for the close rate, we have one more restriction for defining it because close

rates should be on the existing data. So if we draw a cluster as shown here, then the

center rate will be the center of the distance, but the close rate can be a little bit far from

the center, real center, because it should be an existing point. But because of that, the close

rate is more interpretable, we can say, because centuries basically are artificial data points.

If you think about this doggy sample, then if you create a century of each cluster, then the century

means basically a synthetic dog, which does not exist. But if we take one close rate from each

cluster, then that cluster is an existing dog. So probably a user or an engineer might think it's

easier to understand if the center of the cluster is an existing dog compared to the non-existing

synthetic dog. Then if we do a close rate wait, and you can even get the dog, mark right then,

and look at the dog, how this dog looks like, which is better than imagining the synthetic dog.

But yeah, but there are pros and cons, but at least in terms of the computations, I can say

cluster rate creates more restrictions in design operations. But is it the only way?

So let's think about not using the cluster rate, because we assume the cluster rate is not good.

Then one way is not to summarize the cluster at all. So we represent the cluster as the collection

of points themselves, not doing, not creating a century or a cluster rate. In that case,

I need to consider what is okay, but the problem is determining the nearness of clusters becomes a

harder problem, because we don't have a summarized point anymore. So probably we can define inter

cluster distance in any, for instance, if we combine this, if we compare these two clusters,

probably we can consider the minimum of the distances between any two points one from each

other, or we can compute the average distance of all pairs of points one from each other. So

I mean, it will obviously take more time than comparing centuries or clustering, but it is still

a design choice. And the problem with this approach is as long as the cluster size increases,

it also creates a quadratic complexity. It's not good, but it's still one choice that we can make.

How about another one? So let's think of the third one. Here we represent the cluster as a collection,

the same as before, but we will do a different way to define the nearness of the clusters. So

here we define the nearness as we merge clusters, the union is more cohesive. So

let me show you this here, because that is a little bit different from the previous one.

So when you want to compare these two

clusters, the previous approach was about comparing all periods of points between the two clusters,

cluster one and cluster two, right? But this one, this approach is like we create the single

B cluster by containing all the points from the two clusters, and then we look at how good this

cluster is. If the resulting cluster is good, that means it is okay for us to merge into clusters.

If the resulting cluster is bad, we say that the merge was a bad idea. So the approach two and

approach three are similar, very similar to each other, but they have different ways of thinking

to qualify the quality. So here are possible notions of cohesion. So here we need to define

the quality of cohesion, like how good this cluster is given this big merge cluster. So there can be

many possible ways. For instance, we measure the diameter of the merge cluster, which is the maximum

distance between any two points, or we can compute the average distance between 12 to 20,

or we can compute the diameter divided by the number of points. So this is almost like a

density of the cluster. I mean, they're slow. They're slow again, but it is at least a different way to do it.

So, I mean, we covered various possible techniques. There are not a thing that is

better than the other in most cases. It is just they have just different pros and cons.

So they are just design successes. Important thing is you should understand in what cases

one is better than the other and one is good and one is bad. So the final question for this

hierarchical clustering is when do we stop merging clusters? And there are again many possible ways

to determine when to stop versus if the diameter of the merge cluster exists some threshold,

or if the density defined in the previous slide of the merge cluster is a little critical,

or if there is some evidence that the merge cluster yields a bad clustering. Anything is okay.

Then we have a pop quiz. I think it is a really straightforward pop quiz, but let me do it together

with you. I mean, I think I should give you some time to do it because it's really easy.

Here we have some problem definition. Here the definition is the distance between two clusters is

the maximum of the distances between any two points. So that is our definition of the distance.

And because of that, probably we don't have to create any accentuates or cluster rates because

based on that definition of the distance between. So 1, 4, 9, 16, 25,

30+. That would be the first merge, probably these two, right? Because they are obviously close.

And probably the next one is since the definition is the maximum of the distance,

I guess these two, right? Because the distance between 9 and 16 is 7. And then I guess,

I'm not that good at probably these two probably because their distance is 11.

And next thing would be these two because the distance between these two is 15. And

I think it would be in this way. It might be wrong. I'm not good at calculation in my mind,

but at least you understand how it works. Any questions?

Please, Ryan. I know that, but let me proceed. Okay. It was the hierarchical clustering,

which is obvious. Then let me go to one popular point assignment algorithm, K-MIS clustering.

So for almost all machine learning engineers, they know what K-MIS is. K-MIS is like, I can say,

the most popular clustering algorithm, like overall possible implementations in the world.

So it is good to know.

Okay. As I said, K-MIS is the best known family of clustering algorithms for point assignment

because it's simple, easy, and great in theory. So we are given Euclidean space.

Okay. So assumption here is we should work on the Euclidean spacing. And we also care about the

Euclidean distance. So this algorithm is specific to Euclidean space and Euclidean distance at the

same time. And we should take the K, the number of clusters as an input. So unlike in hierarchical

clustering, where we could determine the value of K, the number of clusters dynamically during the

algorithm, here K is an input. And we can obviously try multiple K and compare the resulting cluster

quality by trial and error, but it doesn't provide a way to determine K dynamically during the algorithm.

So our goal is find cluster centers that minimize the sum of square distances from

each point to each cluster center. So this algorithm contains a definition of the good

cluster itself. Our goal is to find cluster centers that minimize the sum of square distances between

each point to this cluster center. So this is it. This algorithm is like a whole package.

The algorithm is simple. We initialize clusters by picking K centers because we know

K in advance. Let's say K equals three. Then we just initialize the random clusters, like three random

clusters across the points. It is okay to do it anyway. And until convergence,

we just repeat these two steps until convergence. Very simple. The first step is for each point,

we assign that point to the clusters whose center is the closest. So which means we look at every

point and we assign that point to the cluster that is the closest to that point. And then after all

points are assigned, we update the center rates of the K clusters as the average of data points

within each cluster. So we update the points and we update the cluster, update the points, update

the clusters until there is a convergence. Then here the convergence means that points don't move

between clusters. So let me move on to an example. Okay. Let's say we set K equal two and we have two

clusters of points. So if you look at this figure, probably a better cluster assignment would be this

much and this much probably because there is a gap between these two points. But at this point,

we don't know the information yet because we just initialized the cluster centers. So let's say we

pick the leftmost example as the center of the right cluster and this one as the center of the

blue cluster, at the initial assignment. Then all the points that are closest to this cluster

are mapped to this blue cluster and these two points, because they are closer to the right

center compared to the blue center, they are on the right cluster. So this is the initial starting

point. And then, so in fact the real initial starting point is to pick the cluster centers

and then we assign the points to the cluster centers. Then obviously the current centers are

not aligned with the actual center of the cluster, right? Then we update the centers.

We update the centers to the right, so the blue center from here to here, the red center from here

to there. And based on the updated centers, we reassign the points because the points have different

closest cluster centers because of the updated centers. We do it again, again and again,

resulting these two clusters. So if we reach a steady state, then the points or the clusters

will not be updated anymore because it's a steady state. So at this point, if a center is here

and a center is here, we have no points or no clusters to be updated. That is done

by a simple tree iteration. So here a great thing is it doesn't require quadratic complexity.

Why is that? Because we don't compare points and points. We compare only points and cluster centers.

This is much better than hierarchical clustering. And here we don't have to think about a complicated

tree or dendrogram, something like that. We just keep iterating. But two simple operations, point

assignment and cluster assignment until there is a concrete. So I mean, in practice,

I mean, it is good to have the theoretical guarantee, but in practice, it is better to

implement a simpler, predictable breakdown. So this is, I mean, you understand why this is the

most popular breakdown because it was really simple, but it works really well. But still,

it is not a bulletproof. It has many limitations. And the first one of the things is initial center.

So the quality of this operation is really affected by the initial center. Because it does not

guarantee binding this global optimum. It can be reached to a local optimum based on the initial

center. For instance, let's look at this kind of thing. So here we have six points in the space,

and there is no clear center here. There is no clear notion of the cluster. So let's say we say

K equals two. Then at this point, it is not predictable how this operation will work,

starting from the two initial centers. So the center can go to the left or can go to the right,

and we are not even sure whether this operator will converge or not in some cases. So like the

quality of K means because it is simple, sometimes it can take many iterations until it's

convergent, and sometimes it can be very unstable. So there is another algorithm,

advanced version of K means, which is called K means plus plus. So the idea is we just pick points

that are likely to lie in different clusters as initial starting points. How this works is the same,

but we just care about finding a good initial point. Because as I said, finding good initial

points determines the number of iterations until it converges. So the basic idea is we pick a small

sample of points S, like let's say 10 points, and we cluster these points very fast. We can even use

the hierarchical cluster if the number of points is small. Then we use their center. We use the

center of the resulting clusters as initial points, as the starting point of the K. So because we have

a very small sample of points, we can apply a more advanced and theoretically great algorithm for

cluster these points, and then it gives the result for all beta. So the root of this, we can set the

sample size for personal to K times log N, K is the number of clusters, and log N is the number of

data. I mean there's not a specific rule to follow, but it's a general rule of thumb. Because the

sample size should be proportional to the data, but doesn't have to be linearly proportional.

And how to pick sample points is also, it depends a lot. It is also a design choice, like pick a

sample point to do the function. So we can say that we visit points in random order. We

create random multiplication of all points and visit them in a random order, and we add point

to the sample with a probability proportional to D of the X-Sphere, where D is the distance between

B and the nearest already visible. So as I said, why do we do it? Because if we fail in selecting

the great sample points, then the whole algorithm will also fail. So we want the sample points that

are far from each other, that can cover a more broad region in the space, so that our sample

clustering can work well. So if we sample points based on the probability proportional to its

distance from existing already picked points, then probably we would be able to cover more broadly

with the trees as a sampling thing. But what I want to say is, how to pick the sample points,

like determine the sample size, they are all design choices. Basically, they are all design

choices based on the, for instance, in some cases, we can increase the sample size or decrease the

sample size, or in some cases, we can make it proportional to the distance or the square distance

or the cubic distance based on how we want to do it. But you know the reason why this is not picking

the maximum distance point, because that is too deterministic and too extreme. So we just want

the points to be distributed more broadly, but we don't want to pick the extreme points. For instance,

you know, if the cluster points look like that one, if you just pick the maximum distance points,

then probably we would pick this tree, which is too extreme, right? So we don't want that to happen.

So for preventing that from happening, we use mostly a probabilistic sampling,

not that deterministic, like a complicated sampling. So this scaling plus plus is about

selecting the initial points better. And this the following slides are showing how this algorithm

actually works, as you know. Any questions so far?

Is it guaranteed that K-means method converge and if it converges, then it is hidden?

Not unique. And so I should probably check it again, because I almost forgot how it works. But as far as

I know, it is guaranteed to converge, but the converge state would not also be unique. So as

far as I know, given the initial starting point, the convergence is guaranteed and the solution is

unique. But the solution is unique with respect to the initial assignment. So if the initial

assignments are changed, the solution can also change. Am I correct? Anyone who knows? Okay,

probably it's correct. But I mean, I try my best to explain anything in the slides, but since all

these algorithms are very traditional and I don't use them anymore, so I might be wrong in some cases.

Please let me know if I'm wrong. I'm okay to be corrected. But anyway, that's how I understood K-means.

Good? More questions?

Great. So let's look at the remaining. Okay, let's look at the remaining questions. Everything so far

is good. K-means is a simple, efficient algorithm, and we also covered how to select the initial

centroid data. But the problem is K. I mean, it's a big problem because even before looking at the

data, even before doing clustering, how do we know the number of clusters? I mean, it's a little

weird to set K in advance of doing this K-means clustering. But the problem is we don't have a way

to select K, a good K, before doing an actual clustering. So one good thing is we just try

this K-means with different values of K. Probably we can try K-means on a sample data, it's up to us,

but what I say is it really depends on the trial of the data. Let's say we increase the K and we do

this K-means clustering again and again depending on K. So this is a plot for doing this K-means

multiple times. And let's say the y-axis is average distance to the centroid. So if we increase K,

the average distance to the centroid, like average distance between points and their corresponding

centroid decreases all the time. So we can say at least if we measure the quality of clustering

as the average distance to the centroid, then the quality increases as well as K increases. So there's

no optimal K at least in that way. But the problem is we don't want to create the 100 clusters.

Like let's say in this figure, if we increase the number of clusters to 4, 4, 6, 4th man, we can say

the quality of clustering is better because the points are more closer to the centroid. But that's

not what we really want. We want to minimize the number of clusters while minimizing the distances.

So in many cases, we say that we want to find some kind of a knee point, a way of K value that

creates sufficiently low distances and when increasing K further does not decrease the

distance anymore. So optimal K means that average distances fall rapidly until the right K

and then it changes a little. So that's the basic concept of finding optimal K. But if you ask,

is there any concrete theoretical way to determine the optimal K, then I'll say no. There's no such

thing. It just depends on us. Probably. And I mean we can design a measure for that. For instance,

let's say the quality of K. Let's say we can define a function in our own good.

Okay, I'll just do anything.

Right. How do you say it?

Let's say we create a measure something like that. So we can say the quality of K is the change of

distances from K and K minus 1 over K and K plus 1. Let's say. Then I mean that might be some measure

to tell us the quality of K, right? Because in that way, if the K decreases the distance from

the previous K is large and if the marginal distance from K to K plus 1 is small, then the

quality will be increased. But this is just what I created at this moment. So it really depends on

engineers and the actual property of the data.

Okay. So we know the optimal K is important. I mean I guess it's more important than by initial

good cluster. Because obviously we have three clusters here. But in case two, and the cluster

quality is bad obviously, but in case two, in case three, well it looks optimal. In case four,

I mean it's not bad. Some people say that these points and these points are in different clusters.

Some people might say that. But obviously, well the previous one might be better than the four

clusters I can say. So K is important. So another thing is K does not allow us to find out layers.

Because as a nature of the point assignment method, because of its simplicity, it is very weak to

out layers. For instance, here N, and that out layer, that out layer, the K means trying to include

them in the existing cluster. It doesn't provide a way to exclude them. So if we can safely

remove these out layers, then the three clusters will look like optimal. But because of this

existence of these out layers, probably this might look not that bad. Because this purple

cluster completes an out layer, and because of that, it essentially shifts to the bottom a little bit,

and it becomes a cluster point that does not include any out layers. Or if we increase the

number of clusters more and more, probably in some case, a new cluster will be assigned to a

distinct cluster. And the other cluster will be covered only at this point. So if K means,

if it works in an ideal way, then we can expect the out layers are containing only single-term

clusters. That's the ideal expectation that we can have from K means. But the problem is they

decide directly. So these out layers can decrease the quality, the overall quality of K means a lot.

So that's the reason why these out layer detection and clustering are very related on base study.

All right. That's basically all that I wanted to discuss today.

So any questions before we finish?

14. Okay. 14. Yeah.

So everything we learned today heavily focuses on the distances between the union nodes.

And I get that just logically thinking and just looking at the graph that yellow and green are

great. They are grouped. But green is heavily grouped, and they have short distances. But

yellow, I'm not sure if we can call that cluster a cluster with minimum distances, and their average

distance would be low. So I guess my set of clusters just have the same topic, but I'm not

sure if our algorithm will give us that kind of cluster, because I don't think yellow is going to

have a low average from the clusters. And also I'm not sure if data-wise that cluster would be

having any meaning, because if we just think of the data without the green, I'm not sure if the

yellow data have wishes, similar concepts like what we would like to need.

Yeah. Great question. So let me rephrase the question, because I guess the question itself

will not be recorded. So basically, I can say the question is whether this green and yellow

clustering is meaningful, or is it good, or is it something that people can agree on, or is it

something that our brain can actually detect? Something like that. So first thing is, I can say,

at least for me, this cluster looks good, but it depends on how we understand this cluster.

So for instance, you can say, as a tension in black, this green one is obviously a great cluster,

because they are gathered, and they are dense, and they create some meaningful distribution.

But the yellow one, I mean, there is no specific rule that might summarize the points of the yellow

cluster, because they are basically more confirmed. They create very broad and more like a coarse-grained

cluster. So for some people, they might not agree that the yellow thing creates a close-grained one.

But I guess, first of all, that will depend on the perspective of the engineer. That will depend on

one cluster that you want to detect or not. That's the first thing. And the second thing is,

if you want to detect such a cluster, if you believe that the yellow cluster is meaningful to detect,

then you can design an algorithm that is able to detect some kind of thing. So then, let's do the

reverse engineering. Let's think about the algorithm that can detect this yellow cluster.

Then probably one thing is, as long as we apply the hierarchical clustering, where is that?

Okay, so if we implement this non-equilibrium hierarchical clustering, which does not create

centrates or clustered, but which defines the distances between two clusters as the

minimum of the distances between the two points, then I can say this algorithm will be able to

detect such a cluster. Because based on that algorithm, it is probably these points will be

connected to each other before they are connected to this green one. Because at least you can say

the distance between this pair of adjacent pairs of yellow points is smaller than the distance between

green and yellow ones. So what I can say is, the design of the algorithm or our goal of doing

clustering or our understanding of the data, all of that defines what cluster they want to find

or what clusters are good to find. So what I want to really emphasize today is clustering does not

have an answer. Clustering is just a way to understand how this data is distributed and what

insights or observations that we want to get from this data. So everything is basically a design

choice. And I can surely say that your point is valid, but I can say some people can say that

this yellow cluster is good. Some people might say that it's not good, but it's just up to how

do you understand the data. Great.

Can I understand your answer as something if the points are on the sphere and the yellow ones

are on the equator and the green ones are on the pole, and if you look at the flat sphere with two

big plates, it seems like it's like that, but it's really stating might have some relation to

that kind of thing. The height is zero or something. Can I understand the answer like that?

So I'm not sure I understood your question correctly. So is it your question that

there might be underlying hidden relationship between these points in the

height of metal space?

Okay, so I will give my best answer that I can create. So here assumption is every data is

like basically a two-dimensional space. So let me rephrase the question in this way. So

every data is not a fixed dimensional point in fact. Every data is more like a complicated

mixture of information like variables, and the representation is some kind of illustration of

such information. For instance, if you think about a document, document is more semantic,

more complicated thing, but as we determine to represent the document as a fixed

dimensional space, at least in the perspective of clustering, we do not care about the higher

dimension. We just assume that every point is a fixed dimensional point existing on this

line. So what I say when I say that the general clusters make sense, I will not imply that there

might be some relationship on the higher dimensional space. The reason is because basically, as I said,

their distances are close to each other. So some clusters can look weird. Let's say in a dimension

space, we can consider that let's say, let's think about these two clusters for instance, similar to

this one. So it's obvious that they create a cluster, but some people say that it's like

an L-shaped cluster. Some people say that this is a belly cluster. Some people say that this is not a

belly cluster because they are too far from each other. So some people say that we should create

these two clusters which might be better than the L-shaped. So what I just want to say is we don't have

to think complicated. It just depends on us whether people look at these clusters and agree on

or not. It's just basically a design choice, what cluster that we want to detect. So I can say my

answer is this way. Good. Okay, great. More questions? Yeah.

I have a question. Hello, I'm Chris, that's my 32.

Am I wrong?

I'm thinking after we merge number one and four, we can merge a pretty closer in number nine.

Yeah. So then the one and four clusters, because the distance is the maximum of the

possible distances, so I can figure out the distance between one four cluster and nine would be eight.

Because if the maximum distance is between 0.1 and nine.

Yeah. I understand.

Yeah, right. Okay, it's good that I was not wrong. Yeah. I mean, this is just a simple example,

so yeah, it doesn't matter much, but okay, great. More questions?

Okay, then let's conclude. So we covered some very, very basic things about clustering. And as I said,

clustering is a very practical topic. When we analyze data, probably the first thing we do is

a clustering, because clustering is a thing that you can try without having a very great understanding

for data. But the algorithms that we covered today are really simple and in memory algorithms.

So as I do, in most cases, we will move on to more advanced algorithms like next week, more like

database algorithms or like non-nuclear algorithms, more algorithms to learn more interestingly.

So that's it for today and see you next week.

