Hi everyone, good morning. Let's start today's class.

So we are at the second part of frequent item sets.

And I guess you remember what we have learned last time, but let me recap what we have learned

first and then we will move on to more advanced algorithms for finding this frequent item

sets or association rules that we were talking last time.

So frequent item sets. I guess you remember the goal. The goal is we are given a data

set in a form which we call market basket level, which consists of multiple baskets

where its basket contains multiple items. So our ultimate goal is to find an association

rule for multiple association rules from an item set i to an item set j, which we believe

to be meaningful so that we want to utilize such rules to optimize the revenue of our

market for a general performance of ours. And we have learned various measures to evaluate

the quality of this rule in a way of support, confidence, and legal.

That was about the goal. And we learned one popular algorithm for doing this market basket

analysis which is called A-Priory. A-Priory algorithm is based on some assumptions or

some observations where we know that finding frequent item sets is harder than finding

association rules. And among finding the item sets of various sizes, we know that counting

pairs is the hardest because we know that as the item set size grows, we know that the

number of such frequent item sets will decrease exponentially. So we are not worried much

about the memory size when the item set is large. But the problem is for pairs because

we can easily guess that there will be an enormous number of pairs, frequent pairs,

in the whole data set. So we care about the memory size of our model, of our computer,

especially if the data set size is very large. Our key idea for implementing this A-Priory

is monotonicity, which means we don't have to check all possible item sets. We just have

to check about some small item sets which can result in removing some safe infrequent

item sets even without checking them. For instance, if we know that some frequent pairs

are not frequent, then we are sure we know that some frequent triples are not frequent,

which contains the infrequent pairs that are subsets. So we use this monotonicity or we

use this relationship between item sets of different sizes to reduce the complexity of

our breakdown. And because we have limited memory, we learn two methods to store the

constant pairs, which are triangular methods and triples methods. Here the figure shows

basically a triangular approach, which is to initialize a dense array and we count all

possible pairs between two set items. And then we also learned how to generalize this algorithm

to larger data sets requiring one disk pass per each size. So although we know that the

counting pairage is the hardest, we know that our algorithm is extendable to even larger sizes. So

we know that A-priority is quite efficient algorithm for solving the problem. But we know that

there can be more advanced versions of it. And I remember there was one question about it last

time. So today we are going to learn some advanced versions of A-priority, which are still based on

simple ideas, but which we believe to be improved compared to A-priority. So before we start, any

questions so far? Like regarding the last topic or regarding our like course in general? No? Great.

So let me actually go to this algorithm. The first one is PCY algorithm, but let me first

show you one limitation of A-priority. So the A-priority algorithm is fine as long as counting

candidate pairs can be done in main memory. So our first pass is designed to reduce the number of

possible candidate pairs from L to C to E, if you remember the symbols. And the idea was that if an

item is infrequent, all the frequent pairs, all the pairs that contain that item have no possibility

to be frequent. So based on that idea, we could reduce the size of candidate pairs. But the problem

is still the candidate pairs can be large based on what characteristic of the data set or the

value of our threshold. So our question is what if the memory is not enough even for the candidate

pair? In that case, we have no way to store this information. And I said last time, what we had to

do was to increase the support threshold to reduce the size of it. But instead, we're going to learn

more advanced algorithms that can deal with this training. So we will learn algorithms that can cut

down the size of C to even a smaller set with some ideas. The first algorithm is called PCY

algorithm. You don't have to care about the full name, it is called PCY algorithm. So

for learning every algorithm, as I always say, you need to

focus on its motivation and observation and its idea. So the motivation of this algorithm is in

Pest1 of A-Priory, where when we count the counts of items that I have set, most memory is right.

Because the memory requirement for Pest1 is just linear with the number of items in the whole data

set, which would be not much compared to the whole memory. So in this case, it's unused. And

our motivation is we want to use this item memory during Pest1, preparing for Pest2.

So our goal is we probably in Pest1, although we don't know which pairs are frequent at this

moment, we want to use this memory to reduce the memory requirement for Pest2 in some way,

although we don't know how exactly it can be done, but we want to do that. That's the whole

motivation. So this algorithm uses the idea of a hash table. This PCY algorithm during Pest1,

where the goal of Pest1 is to count the items, the item sets, we use this item memory for creating

a hash table of pairs. But here, the pairs are not just candidate pairs, it's just all pairs.

So we know that we don't have sufficient memory to store all pairs, like the counts of all pairs,

obviously. So here we create a hash table, and we make it add as many buckets of speed in memory.

What it means is, if we have, as a simple example, if we have four kilobytes of memory idle during

Pest1, and if we assume that every bucket in this hash table takes four bytes as a meter, then we

can create a thousand buckets, because that's all memory that we have. So the number of buckets is

in fact irrelevant to the number of pairs at their time. Here, the number of buckets is determined by

the size of our item. And then what we do is, during Pest1, for every pair that we observe during

the Pest1, for every bucket, we add one to the hash bucket. So here, the assumption in our hash

function works for each pair. Even a pair, like a mirror and a build, the hash function computes

an item index from that pair, and it will map that pair into any bucket in this hash table,

and we increase one to the hash bucket. So obviously, we have collision, because the number of buckets

is much smaller than the number of units of bits. So here, you get the point, right? We just create

the hash table as large as possible, and we compute the hash function for every pair that we

encounter in Pest1. So let's say you are smart, if you have very good intuition, then you'll

understand why we do it. You'll understand how this hash table can be used in the future based on the

concept of monotonicity. So I'll give you like 10 seconds to think about it. Even before we learn

how this algorithm actually works, this gives you some hint on how we can actually reduce the memory

requirement for Pest2. Okay, so why do we do that? There's a question that I just asked, right? So

the reason why we do it is to eliminate pairs that have no chance to be free. What it means is

each bucket B has a count of all pairs that hash to B, because there is a collision. So if this count

is greater than or equal to the support threshold S, then we are not sure which of these pairs are

really free convertible. But we just know that every pair that is mapped to that bucket has a

chance to be free convertible, because the whole count is exceeding the threshold. But otherwise,

if the count is less than the support threshold, then we can ensure that all pairs that are mapped

to that bucket have no chance to be free convertible. So it is like safely reducing candidates by

based on the concept of collision. Okay, so because we have a very good way to reduce the

candidates for Pest2, in Pest2 we define candidate pair C2 such that first condition is the same as

before. A pair becomes a candidate only if both items i and j are which is the same as the A pair.

But we have just a new condition for this piece of wire for them, which is a pair becomes a candidate

only if that pair has to do a frequent bucket. So that is the difference. Because we have another

independent condition independent of the first one, although if the collision is severe, then

probably all the counts can be greater than the support threshold. In that case, we have no reason to do it.

But in other cases, if at least some buckets are below the threshold, then we can redo

the candidate pairs compared to A pair based on the spectrum condition.

The other stages are all the same as A pair. The only difference is we just create a hash table

during Pest1 to do this.

Okay, got it? I mean it's not that hard, right? So if we create this hash table during Pest1,

then we need this table even in Pest2. Why is that? Because during Pest2, we need to check whether

each pair has to do a frequent bucket or not. So in Pest2, we still need some memory to store

the information for the second condition, which is the hash table we create from Pest1.

But the problem is in Pest1, we create this hash table to fit all the memory. So we don't have any

item memory at all if we want to keep this hash table for Pest2. So what we do is we replace the

buckets by a beat vector. So like in our original hash table, that will depend on how we implement

it. But still, if we assume that every bucket is an integer, then every bucket will take 32 beats,

which is 4 bytes. But for Pest2, we don't need an actual integer, we don't need an actual count.

It just has to be, it just can be a beat that is either 1 or 2.

So 1 means the bucket count exceeded the core variables and 0 means it did not. So we are going to

replace the space, we're going to reduce the space by 1 over 32 by replacing the integer

hash table to a beat vector or a beat hash table, as I'm saying. We still have to store the hash

function itself, but like a single hash function will take only a couple of strings, so it won't

matter that much. So if we look at this figure, I get the thing to come out there.

In the next one, we have item counts and we have a hash table for pairs. And then if we go to Pest2,

we change the item counts into a table of critical item sets and we're going to reduce the size of

this hash table into a beat map, so a beat vector. So because of this one, we still lose some memory.

Like I guess we can say that we lose 1 over 32 of all the memory because of our new ideas.

So we still have some trade-off, but what we believe is, although we pick some memory, still

we believe this new idea will reduce more candidate pairs compared to the memory that we think.

So based on this beat map and based on these beat map items, then we count the count of candidate pairs

in Pest2. Hoping that our new data structure for candidate pairs will be in memory, thanks to our

new optimization. But I mean, it still be a case that even these new candidate pairs are not fitting

into our memory. That would be a problem and in fact even this ECWI algorithm cannot handle that

case, although we try to optimize our algorithm.

One other thing, let's say you really implement this algorithm, but then PCY algorithm cannot

use the triangular matrix method for our time. Why is that? Because the whole idea of this PCY

algorithm is to utilize the sparsity of candidate pairs. Let's say we have

like 100 items here, 100 items here. So in our A-Parrary, if we reduce the candidate

items, then all these pairs have a chance to be frequent. But in PCY, this data structure is

sparse because although only some pairs are probably frequent, but some pairs do not have

a chance to be frequent at all. So we need to use this sparsity of this data structure.

So we need to use the triple method, which is a data structure that allows us to utilize

the sparsity by storing i, j, and count in a hash table. So I mean it's not that hard, right?

So there is a pop quiz. Let me briefly do this pop quiz with you together so that we

make sure we understand this idea. Here is a collection of baskets. So that 3D basket is

almost all the data set that we need. Suppose that the support ratio is 2. And so on the first

class of PCY, suppose that we use the hash table with 3 buckets. And the pair is hashed to the

bucket. So it is important we design a hash function which is good. But here we use a very

simple pattern. Then the question is which pairs are counted on the second pattern? So let's

simulate the process of PCY. So during the first batch, we create the hash table H with 3 buckets.

Buckets 1, bucket 2, bucket 3. So for the first bucket, we observe 3 pairs. 1, 2, basket 3. 1, 3,

and 2, 3. And in the second basket, we observe 3, 4, 3, 5, 4, 5. And the third basket, we observe 2,

4, 2, 5, and 4, 5. So like all the possible pairs that we observe, 3 plus 1 is 9 cases.

And our hash function is i times j mod 3. So first one is like 1 times 3, 2, right? So it will go to

here. So it will count at the count of the third function. 1, 3. Then the index is 1,

0, 1, 2. So 1, 3, a little bit here. And 2, 3, 6, a little bit here. Right? 3, 4, of course,

it will go here. So this hash function is not good. But anyway. So 4, 3, 5, this becomes 4.

And 4, 5, 20, 2. So this goes to here. So 4, 8, here. 2, 5, 10, here. 4, 5, 20, 2, 4.

Okay. This is about it, right? Am I correct? Well, I'm not sure. I might be wrong in

computation, but this is a process. So here, the support regal is 2. So this

bucket exists a regal. This bucket exists a regal. So all the pairs that are hashed to these two

buckets have a chance to be perfect. This one has a plan of one, right? Because our hash function is

4, the performance is not that satisfactory, but still it works. So I guess the only pair that is

meant to that bucket was, I guess it was this pair, as I remember correctly. Then we know that this

has no chance to be perfect. So when we create a data structure with three items,

four items, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, we can eliminate these two. Where is it? 2, 5, pair.

By the way, so we don't have to count the, like count before that pair because of our

representation, right? So this is it. Super easy. Any questions? Yeah.

So I'm sorry, could you say more or not?

You can use it in Korean too. Anyway.

I think we need to do hash again.

Yeah, good question. So let's say we, so during hash 1, you use the hash function that looks like

this one. This is like definition of our hash function. The first thing is we need to use the

same hash function again, because only in that case, we can utilize this information in pass 2.

Because what we really do in pass 2 is, how do we say that? So we replace this hash table into a

bit vector of the simply 0, 1, 0, 1. So this is the bit vector that we store during pass 2. So

we need the same hash function so that we hash these pairs again to this bit vector. And then

we can check whether each pair was mapped to a pre-configured bucket or not in pass 2. So we

really need the same hash function. Because if we change the hash function, then this bit vector

would mean nothing. You get the point? So we need to use the hash function. And the second thing is

we need to hash these pairs again. The answer is yes. During pass 2, we need to follow the same

procedure again. And we need to hash each pair again to this data structure. Because whether each

pair has a chance to be frequent or not, the information itself is not stored in our data

structure. The only thing that our data structure contains is a pair of a bit vector and the hash

function. So we need to apply this hash function again during pass 2 to every possible pair that

we have. But as I said, we need to keep this hash function. And probably because of that,

our hash function will take some memory as well. But that's just a simple few lines of code so it

will not affect the whole data structure at all, the whole memory organization at all.

So is that the answer to your question?

Yeah.

Right.

Because as you said, this network doesn't actually know about pairs, how many of them are pair buttons.

So in the previous instances...

You mean pockets?

Yeah. The other ones are not frequent. It's like in the third case,

should also be random.

You mean this pair?

One, two, and one, three.

One, two, and one, three.

You mean this pair? But one, one, two. So this is the pair. So one and two is hashed to this bucket.

And the count of this bucket is four, as I did it correctly. Then this pair has a chance to be frequent.

But you mean the one itself is not frequent. That's why you said.

I think the question is that.

Ah. Yeah, but one is frequent, right? Because one appears twice. The precursor of this two.

So if that threshold is...

I guess...

So because the threshold is two, if an item appears twice, then the item is frequent.

That's why I said.

Thank you.

And of course, it controls all the pairs and then counts.

Ah. I see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're right.

So that is the original data set. So yeah, I was talking about this decomposed pair here, right?

So because there, one appears only once.

So one is frequent. So that one information is about the first condition here.

This one. But you need to understand that these two conditions are independent.

When we do the second thing, we don't care about whether each individual item is frequent or not.

Because the reason is we know that the item one is in frequent only after pass one.

So during pass one, while we create this hash table by enumerating all possible pairs,

we don't know whether one will be really frequent or not, because that information is determined after pass one.

So while we do this hash table, we just count all the possible pairs and we create this bit vector.

And then after we create this bit vector and after we create this frequent item information

during pass one independently, we are going to apply these two conditions and pass two conditions.

Right. Yeah, yeah. Right. Yeah. And thank you for addressing the mistake.

Work with us?

Okay. I mean, the idea is super simple, but as I get some questions, the real implementation,

I mean, if you really try to implement this for algorithm, then some details can be subtle.

So you can ask always these questions to me and I'll like that, try my best.

Okay. So that was the end of the description of the piecewise algorithm,

which is not that hard, I guess. And then let's go to more extensions of this,

because even this piecewise algorithm has some room for improvement.

I'm not sure if you see this improved like room for like at this point or not,

but let's see its extensions. Okay. There are two basic directions of extensions of this piecewise,

multi-stage and multi-panel algorithm. Both of these algorithms create multiple hash tables

to reduce the number of candidate pairs even more than piecewise. But the way we create

multiple tables is data. Multi-stages, we create tables to obsessive passes like in a sequential

way, but multi-page algorithm creates tables at the same time in parallel.

So let's look at the multi-stage first. Okay. The motivation is, the motivation is

this. At this point, like I just went back to the illustration of piecewise. After test one,

what we see is we still have idle memory of this part. Like our assumption is if we could reduce

the number of candidate pairs by using this idle memory for creating a bitmap, why not twice?

We can do the same thing again using this idle memory using the previous conditions one and two.

That would even reduce more candidates. But still, if we create another like...

So for every test, like we create a script on the item sets and we create this bitmap, right? That

is like a table. If we use that item memory to create another bitmap, then that will take another

of some memory slot for creating the second bitmap. But we can do it the fourth bitmap and

the fifth bitmap as much as we want, as long as we have idle memory. So that is the basic idea of

the multi-stage algorithm. So let me look at this simple algorithm that describes how this works.

In test one, this multi-stage algorithm is the same as piecewise. It just does this

hash table thing and it stores the results in a bitmap. Then it creates the second hash table

to generate another bitmap. So this table, this new table has 31 over 32 of buckets due to the

first bitmap, due to the memory because of the first bitmap. So the collision rate will increase

for this bitmap, but at the same time, we have a new condition that can reduce the candidates for

creating this table, which is here a pair is hashed only if both IOJR fragments and the pair is hashed

to bring the bucket and beat that one. We have such information because we test the first pass.

So for creating this second bitmap, this hash table, although the size of this table is smaller

than before, but we have new conditions to reduce the possible candidate pairs for this hash table.

So I guess overall, the collision rate will be much smaller for this hash table because we can

apply these three conditions while we create the second table. All right, so I guess the second

table can contain much fewer pre-conv buckets. Then this whole operator does not contain the

original test two of A-Card where we really count the three numbers. So we need another test three

for doing that, for doing this original test two. So this multi-stage algorithm is good, but it

requires another disk pass. So it increases the running time because of that. But the idea is simple.

So after we create this second hash table, we place this second hash table into the second

bitmap in our memory that creates another condition for our real path, like for our real counting

bucket. So here our overall conditions are both IMJF frequent, here H2 pre-conv bucket,

bitmap one, pair H2 pre-conv bucket, and bitmap two. So as we have more independent conditions

and we combine these conditions with N operator, we can reduce the size of the candidates.

Subtlety. One subtlety. So many students, as I plot this place multiple times, many students

think that as we create a better condition, that like okay this is condition three and condition two,

here is condition two. So we have condition three, which seems to be better than condition two.

Some students think that we can discard condition two because condition three is obviously better

than condition two. But we need condition two in our memory for doing this counting of pairs. So we

cannot discard the information of condition two, we cannot discard the second bitmap from our memory,

which is important to address. Why is that? Because let's say that a pair IJ, IMJ is hashed to an

infrequent bucket in bitmap one. Let's say this is a function. Then because of this one, this pair

will not be counted in test two. Because while we do test two, we know that there is no chance to

be free count. So because of that, the overall count in our second hash table would be much

smaller than in the first hash table, right? Anyway, but that doesn't mean that that pair cannot hash

to a frequent bucket in bitmap two. So even though we did not count that pair, that doesn't mean we

cannot hash that pair or bitmap two. So it might be possible that this pair is not counted at all

while we create this second hash table, but it can be hashed to a frequent bucket. So if we don't

have the bitmap one, then we don't know whether this hash, this pair has been used to create this

hash table or not. So we really need this bitmap one because all these conditions are in fact

independent. Condition three is not necessarily better than condition two. They are just independent

conditions that we check every time for doing this count. Okay? So because of that, an infrequent

pair may satisfy condition one and three, but can violate condition two. So we really need to keep this bitmap one.

Question? Clear? Yeah.

So are you saying that hashed division, can you still use the hashed division?

Yeah, yeah. And I mean, you can remember what I said, but you really need to understand why we need

bitmap one. And I guess you can understand it, but that is a little tallacy. I get this

question a lot while I do this classes.

So this memory will look like this. In test one, we create a hash table. In test two, we replace the

hash table with a bitmap. And during test two, we also create a second page here. And then in test three,

we replace the hash table with bitmap two. We create the real data structure for finding bits.

And of course, we can increase the number of passes even more, like pass four, pass five, pass six,

when our memory is really short. Okay?

As I said, we can add more passes until there is not enough space for creating another hash table.

And truly frequent pairs, that is important, as you may know, truly frequent pairs will always

hash to prediction buckets. Of course, because the count of that pair itself exists the support

ratio. So no matter how we create this hash table, truly frequent pairs will always hash to

prediction buckets. So it is okay that we increase the number of passes to a super large number,

like 10, even 100. Okay?

Clear? Great. Let's move on to a multi-hash algorithm, which is in fact a simpler one,

the multi-stage algorithm. So our goal of this algorithm is we know that creating multiple tables

is good, but we don't want to increase the number of passes. We don't want to check this again and

again because of the multi-stage algorithm. Then why did we create multiple hash tables

during a single test, like with different hash functions?

Sorry, I like my point.

It's a little obnoxious. So the idea is we create multiple hash tables with different hash functions.

So our condition will look like this. A pair is in the candidate set if both items are frequent

and the pair hashes to a frequent bucket in both hash tables. So as in the multi-stage algorithm,

a truly frequent pair will be frequent in all the hash tables, no matter how we create this hash

function. So it is okay. But if we create, for instance, two hash tables, it is good that we

apply two independent conditions of hash functions, but the problem is the size of each hash table will

decrease. So it will increase the collision rate because of that. As we can see from this figure,

if we create two hash tables, the size of each one is the half of the original size, so it will

increase the collision rate. But at the same time, because we have two independent hash functions,

our general condition for reducing the candidate would be strengthened because we are clearly

dependent on them. Then as a computer scientist, you need to have this question. What number of

hash tables would be optimal? Like if we increase the number of hash tables to too much, like 100

or 1000, then the collision rate would be too much so that almost all the pairs will be frequent

in almost all the hash tables. So it's one mean additive. But at least if we compare one hash table

and two hash tables, probably we can say two hash tables can be better than one hash table because

the size is half, but the condition is independently applied, like multiple, if you think about it.

So this will lead us to this question. We can increase the number of hash tables as much as we

want so one would be the optimal value of n. Let's say that p is a probability of a pair to be

frequent in this table. Let's say that is a simple constant. Then our whole probability for an

infrequent pair to be in C2 is p to the power of n. Because we have n hash tables while probability

for being frequent is p. So in limited numbers, if we increase the number of people, if you use more

people, then it will increase n obviously, but it will also increase p because as I said it will

increase the collision. So the point is the question that I'm going to talk about in this slide is

at some point the p to the power of n will increase if we increase n too much. So it will

for instance control a figure like plot of this function p to the power of n by computing this p

very accurately, then we can find this optimal value. And that will be addressed in our later

lecture because we have a designated topic for a hash function because hash function is really

really important for dealing with large data, especially when even linear passes taking so

much time. So later we'll understand some theory behind this hash function and the collision

range on all these things later. So at least for today you can just simply understand there

might be, there should be an optimal value based on this function, but we don't care about that

value today. Okay.

Questions?

Great. So let me move on to the second part which is a little bit complicated, which is like because

we the second, the third part contains some upgrade that are a little bit complicated

compared to the first one. Okay, so what we want to do is we want to learn some upgrade items that

can guarantee limited passes, which means so far we used one path for each size of items and the

creation of this L that requires a new pass and C is a set of 10 to 2 pulls and I guess you remember

the point. So the point here is as we increase the size of the items to 3, 4 by 3, we need another

which we really want to avoid. So what we learned at this last point, last part of today's class is

to learn limited pass algorithm which can for instance find all size items that's during like

for only two these passes like that. Okay. Yeah, limited pass algorithm. Many, so if we study

limited pass algorithms, probably we care more about speed compared to accuracy because many

applications, let's say if you run a supermarket, we can sacrifice some accuracy or speed because

I mean when we are a supermarket manager, accuracy cannot can be like 80% or 70% or 90%. It doesn't

have to be 100% or important thing is this algorithm finishes on time, right? So in many

data mining algorithms, we care about the trade-off between accuracy or approximation and speed

unlike a theoretical algorithm class. So our goal is we want to find all or most different

items that's using at most two passes based on these three main operations, random sampling,

so you might as well upgrade them and the sun upgrade them. So let me move on to the simplest one,

random sampling. So let's say you are a data engineer. You have limited memory, you have a

large data set of data, and you need to do it on time. Then in fact, even before learning these

complicated algorithms, the simplest way is sampling. Like given the whole data set, you can

just sample like given the whole basket, set of baskets, you can just sample like let's say 10%

of all these baskets to create a data set that's big in memory. I mean that is much easier than

thinking about this complicated disk resident operations, right? In many cases. So if we have

this small set that can be in memory, we can run a priority in memory because we can't be in memory.

So in that case, we don't have to care about the disk passes anymore, so the time will be greatly

reduced, I can say. So if the sample ratio is issued at 10%, for instance, then we can, we probably

should adjust the support threshold as well because if you sample 10%, then the support will be

basically one of our units. So we adjust the support threshold. So this random sampling is in fact

super efficient in many cases because I mean most people don't care about the accuracy that much,

just if you really want to analyze the data set, random sampling is in fact good. But because we

are a computer scientist, we are not very satisfied with that random sampling because

it introduces errors. So when we think about one original algorithm and when we think about

this approximation, especially in this binary decision, we have two types of errors which are

very common in statistics or other fields as well, which are false positives and false negatives.

False positive is if the true answer is no, but we say that the answer is yes, that is kind of that

error, while the false negative is the true answer is no, but sorry, true answer is yes, but our answer is no.

So in this case, a false positive error is items that is frequent in our sample. So we say that

this item set is frequent, but in fact that item set is not frequent in the full data set. So in that case,

the error is called false positive. On the other hand, if the item set is frequent in the full data

set, but if the item set is not frequent in our sample, then we are not going to report this item

set to be frequent, so that is a false negative error. So this random sampling approach by default

causes these two errors to be the same, right? Of course, we increase. But if you compare these two errors,

false positives can be eliminated easily, because let's say we create this random sample and we

create this set of frequent item sets by running this in memory app right now. If we have some

resource and time, we can just do this one disk pass based on our frequent pairs or frequent item

sets to check whether each frequent item set in our memory is really frequent in disk or not. So

for eliminating these false positives, what we really need is another disk pass. So as long as

we can do this disk pass, then we can eliminate all the false positives. But the more tricky problem is

we cannot eliminate false negatives if you think about it, because if a sample is not frequent

in the sample, and if a sample is truly frequent in the whole data, then we have no way to get this

like false negative sample from the whole data in our in-memory app right now. It cannot be done by

another disk pass. So we can reduce the false positive, false negative by reducing the threshold

from p as per p is the sample ratio to 0.9 pm, so that we have more of a conservative threshold

to reduce the false negative. But reducing the false negative is completely different from

eliminating the false positive. In fact, the sampling ratio for us is really hard to eliminate

the false negative, although it is not that hard to eliminate a false negative. So it's important you

have a very clear picture on why these two errors are different from each other, and why

one is easier and one is more difficult.

Okay, questions?

Good. So random sampling is, I mean, it is even not an algorithm. It is just a simple approach.

So let's move on to actual algorithm. Here our question is, let's say, can we eliminate, so we

want to do random sampling because we don't do a lot of these classes, but at the same time,

we want to eliminate false negative. That's a hard question, right? So the idea to solve this

question is a little bit complicated. We can't draw a negative border for an efficient safety

check. So let me explain that later. But here the solution is the toy-bonanza-grade. So how it works

is, it uses one test over sample, and one, so this is like a battle not quite, it is more like

proper detoxing program. It uses one test over sample and one test over the whole data. So it

consists of two classes, but one of them is only this test. And it guarantees that there are no

false negatives and first, it means the algorithm is off track, which is great. However, there is a

small chance that it will not finish by two paths. That means this algorithm is basically a

probabilistic algorithm. We can say that the average number of passes to produce an answer is

a constant. So if you compute the theoretical complexity of this algorithm, we can guarantee

that by average, this algorithm is a constant pass-off algorithm. But if you really run this

algorithm, there is no chance that it will require more passes. So on average, in general, we can say

this pattern is operating over two passes, but it's not deterministic. So it's a little complicated.

So in pass one, so as I said, it consists of two passes. In pass one, we create a sample,

as in random sampling, and we find candidate pairs, like candidate item sets from a small sample.

And we use a support variable less than proportional to the LDPF, let's say 0.9. And then the idea is

to construct the negative order. What is a negative order? It's a new concept, right? So the negative

order defined as a collection of items, item sets, that are not pre-convex samples, but all of their

immediate subsets are pre-convex samples. An immediate subset is constructed by deleting exactly

one item. And it'd be much easier to look at this illustration. So this is our sample.

And this gray area is the pre-conv set found from our sample, by random sample. There are items like ACD,

ADC, ADD, things like that. And the negative order is conceptually a border that contains these

pre-conv sets. It is more like a real border between this pre-conv item set from the sample

and the in-pre-conv item set in general. It is border. So here, ADC, that item set, is in the

negative order, if and only if, that is not pre-conv in the sample. So it shouldn't be in this gray area.

At the same time, all of its immediate subsets are pre-conv. So you just have to understand what that

means. That means although ADC, that item set is not pre-conv in the sample, but it has a chance to be

pre-conv, because all its immediate subsets are pre-conv. So I mean, we can guarantee that all these

subsets are at least pre-conv in the sample. So although ADC is not pre-conv in our current sample,

but we are not very sure whether this item set is really pre-conv or not. Because all its immediate

subsets are pre-conv, probably it might be pre-conv, just because the sampling error is not pre-conv in

the sample, but it can be pre-conv. This negative order is like our conjecture set. It's a set of

item sets that we think we really have to check for the full business class. Like the

highly shaded, like the item sets that have a chance to be broad, that have a chance to be like the

anomalous pattern in our case. And at the same time, that single-ton item set E is also in the

negative order, because its immediate subset is like the empty set, which basically can not

simply be pre-conv. So this E, this item set is also in the discrete negative order. What does that mean?

It means we will also check whether this item is really pre-conv or not in our later business class.

So for this upgrade, it is really important to create this negative order well, because we are

gonna check this negative order item set in our later business class. If, let's say, if this

negative order expands, and if all the other item sets in the whole data set is included in the

border, then it will be a problem for us, because we don't have enough memory to check all items.

But if we assume this negative order is effective, like the design is not that large, but still it

contains really important items that we would have enough memory to check each item set in the

negative order in our later business class. So in test two, we made a press on the entire data set,

and we found item sets which are frequent in sample and existing in negative order.

We finished if no member of the negative order is frequent in full data.

What does it mean? It means we check the item sets frequent in sample to reduce most positive.

Okay, we double check whether our answer is really frequent in the full data or not. That's the A part.

B part is we check the first false negative. In B part, we check whether there might be

some item sets that we missed during our first test in our sample. That's the point of the B.

So if at least one member of the item set in the negative border is found to be frequent

in our second test, then we are doomed. That means there is a breach in our negative border.

There is a fault. I mean, our negative order should be complete, but at least if one item set

is frequent here, let's say in the full data, then we have a fault in this negative border.

That means around this area, there can be many more frequent item sets that we missed in our sample.

That means our border is not good enough to construct this boundary for our sample.

Then what do we do in that case? In that case, we finish this algorithm if no member is frequent

in full data, which is breaking. Otherwise, there might be a larger set that is frequent,

so we do not finish this algorithm. In fact, we need to repeat this algorithm with the new

random sample by discarding all the information that we have at this point. Why do we do that?

Because, I mean, if we know that there is a fault at this point, we don't know how large this fault is.

We don't know how many item sets in this area will be really frequent or not. So

we're really checking these item sets in this area, and we are not sure how many passes that

we really need to run for checking all these areas around before. So instead of doing that,

we just discard all this thing and we repeat this algorithm from the start by creating another

random sample. So you might think this is a little waste of our resources put into our first pass,

but we have no other way to do it. So this algorithm is some really, I can say,

interesting because it can guarantee that our sample has no false positive and no false negative

by next to. So no false positive clearly because of next to, and no false negative because of this

reason. So I will explain it very soon. Before we do that, any questions?

Good. So there is no false negative and the reason is almost the same as I explained.

Because suppose that an item set S is frequent in the whole data but not frequent in the sample.

Then if it is a 17th truth, then we can theoretically guarantee that this border,

the border contains at least one item set frequent in the whole. That means, that means

if at least one item set is in the outside, one item set that is frequent in the whole data is

existing outside, then that theory says that there will be a hole, there should be a hole

that can result in detecting this item set. So that is important theory.

Okay. Why is that? Because if there is such an item set frequently in the whole but not in the

sample, then one of the following either as in the value order, as itself in the value order,

or S has an immediate subset T frequently in the whole data but not in the sample. So this

puts recursively until there is a subset in the value order, in that root order.

And yeah, so in illustration,

so we can simply say that, okay I published a white one. So we have a frequent item set in the

sample, we have a negative border, and let's say in the border we have A, B, C.

It's assumption. Let's say we have a large item set A, B, C, G, E, which is frequent in the whole

data but not in the sample. Then by that theory, we know that there should be some item set,

immediate subset of this one, which is smaller than our, so this is like a thing. So we know

that there is an immediate subset which is not frequently in the whole data but not frequently

in the sample. So we can say we have some path from that to here. Repulsively, we can apply this

theory again to result in some item set that is in the frequent border. So every item set that is

not frequently in the sample but frequently in the whole data will have a path to the negative border.

So because we have such an item set A, B, and C, we know that this is a whole during our path 2.

So we can detect this A, B, C for our path 2, and we know that there should be some target

item sets outside because of this whole. So because of this reason, we run this algorithm again

from the start. So as a computer scientist, just by looking at this theory, we feel that this

algorithm is not complete because we don't have a theoretical guarantee that this algorithm can

finish in some runs. Because every run, again, let's say we rerun this algorithm, right?

Every run of this algorithm is independent. Like the number of runs that we really need to do for

this algorithm can be a hundred or a thousand because we don't have a guarantee for that.

And that is something we're not satisfactory as a computer scientist, right? But still,

although I will not talk about it, a really good part of this algorithm is... Where is it?

Okay, a good part of this algorithm is if you really compute every number of instances,

this is a constant. Although every run, every single run of this algorithm has no theoretical

guarantee, but if you compute every number of passes in a big picture, then it is a constant.

So that is an important theoretical guarantee for us to use this algorithm in practice.

But honestly, if I'm a data engineer, probably I'm just going to use the random sampling instead

of this one because it is too complicated to implement in real companies. But we still

have to understand there are such algorithms that provide a better theoretical guarantee on

these errors. Any questions?

Wait, wait. Okay. So let me move on to another part. Second, I guess it's the final part.

So I guess today's place is not about learning a very complicated thing. Today's class is more

about learning various ways to solve the same problem, which is, I think, good. The last

algorithm is called the sum algorithm. So this is more related to our previous topic, the

matrices or distributed computing, because the idea of this algorithm is to split the data into

multiple chunks and we do this in-memory operation on each chunk. And then we combine these written

items that spawn from different chunks into a single one based on the use of the first. So

it's more like a theory, like a perspective of the distributed computing.

So this sum algorithm can be described in two parts. And we can avoid both negatives and positives

with two rules in part one. So when we do this part one, when we read the data sample, all the

data samples from the list, we divide this input file into one over P, where P, what is the P?

I guess P is just the support ratio, but it's not better than one. But anyway, we divide the

input file into multiple chunks and we run in-memory a priority for each chunk. So I mean,

this takes time. Of course it takes time. But since the number of data is small enough to be

fitted in-memory, we don't care about the complexity of that in-memory a priority, because

as I said, we care about the disk masses. And in part two, we take the union of all

three different item sets from multiple chunks and we select those with the support. So when we

do this thing for each chunk, we decrease the support variable by two into P s, where P is

smaller than one. And here for the part one, when we really take the final output, we use the original

support ratio S. In first thing, there are no frequent false negatives. I mean, it's obvious

that there are no false positives because we will do this final thing. But why no false positives?

Because we can easily see that a frequent item set must be frequent in at least one chunk.

So which means, I mean, it's a simple math, right? So let's say if the support ratio is nine,

if we create a data set into divided data into three chunks, and let's say we apply the support

rate of three for each chunk, then if the overall count of an item set is greater than nine, then

it should be, it must be, it's count in at least one of the three chunks is above three.

Because, I mean, obviously, because of counted memory. So as long as we do it correctly, there

is no false negative. Because a frequent item set should be frequent in at least one chunk

in this process. So in fact, although this algorithm is easy and simple, but it can guarantee no errors,

which is good. And another great thing about this algorithm is, as I said, it's really compatible

with the Matricules or any other parallel computation part. In P s1, so let's say we create

two Matricules to solve this problem to implement this algorithm. So in our first class, we will

implement math and reviews. Now, second time, we will implement math and review. In our P s1,

we find counted items. So we divide the item set into chunks. And we for each map, we take the chunk

and return f comma one for each frequent item set. So in the math test, in fact, we don't have to see

each line of the document that we did in our previous word counting example. We can just take

the whole chunk and you run a memory, a card with them and return f comma one for every frequent item set.

But here is the one that doesn't mean anything. The value doesn't mean anything because what we

want to do is just define the frequent item set in every chunk. Okay. And in the review test,

we ignore the values and we produce items that appear at least one. So, right?

Then in P s2, we found the true frequent items. In the math test, we take counted items from P s1

and a portion of the input data and return c comma v where c is the counted item set and v is the

support of this function. So what does that mean? It means that for P s2, we need to see the whole

data, right? We need to see the whole data. But since the whole data does not fit in memory,

in our math test, in our test two, what we divide is the original data. So that is the meaning of

the portion of input data because that is like the element of division, the element of this really

computing the second time. And our assumption is we can take all the counted items from P s1

and store them in memory. That is our assumption. If the counted item sets are exceeding the main

memory, then we can also divide these counted items into multiple chunks and the math test

will be much more complicated. But anyway, we take a portion of input data and we return

c comma v if c is the counted item set and v is the support for this portion. So we do the

full disk pass dividing the input data into multiple chunks in the second pass. And then

in the reduced pass for each item set, we sum the values and output if the sum is exceeding the

support. That is what we do. So I'm not sure how intuitive this algorithm looks like to you,

but if you carefully understand how web editors work and how this algorithm works, then you'll see

this thing is very intuitive and easy to implement on your site. So I guess that is the end of

basically what I want to say today. So before we move on to the last part, any questions on everything?

Once I was in the room, I was streaming to the big screen.

So,

I mean, there should be a pair of pairs. And for example, that pair is a milk-puma

and then for another pair, milk-puma will always go to the same chunk, right?

Do we mean for the first pass, that pass? I guess that will depend on how we create this chunk from the data.

So here, I guess our assumption for dividing this initial data into multiple chunks in pass 1 is,

I guess we will not care about how these baskets are distributed. I guess we can just say that we

take the 100% of the whole data and we can simply divide it into consecutive chunks, I think.

So the same pair, like milk and basket, can appear in different chunks.

But is there a reason why you think the same pair would always be in the same chunk?

If this is important, then it would cause some change from memory to memory basis.

So there's no different case.

So let's say if we create a hash function and if we divide this data into chunks based on that hash function for the pair,

then probably we can ensure that the same pair appears only in one chunk if we divide the input data in a more careful way.

Is that what you want to say? Yeah, I think that is a quite good idea to try.

Although in that case, probably the problem would be the imbalance between these chunks,

because in that case, some chunk can be really large, some chunk can be really small.

But I think we can definitely try and that would be much better than this algorithm,

because in that case, the number of unique pairs for each chunk would be much greatly reduced compared to this original algorithm.

So probably, I mean, that is how this research works.

Like if we are given this existing algorithm, we think about it and probably we have some better ideas and we try it and it works well.

Then it's like the starting point of the research.

So like, for instance, well, because this algorithm has been old, like it's been some years since its first implementation,

so there would be, as you said, some algorithms that implement your algorithm, your idea, I can say in the literature.

But if there are no such algorithms, then that can be like your long-term risk.

Then the research question would be, how can we guarantee that each chunk, I mean, each pair uniquely is mapped to some chunk without making duplicates?

And how can we deal with this imbalance that is created by dividing these chunks?

And we also have to care about the trade-off, because in your way, there would be an overhead in the first part.

And there would be an imbalance between these chunks.

And we need to compare the state, the time and effort for that with the increased overhead.

That is like how almost all data mining algorithms work.

So we compare this trade-off.

Yeah, great.

More questions?

No?

Great.

So, I mean, I know that I'm happy to answer like every question that you ask after the class, which is good.

But in fact, it is better than you can ask during class, because I mean, I think every question is valuable in this class.

So if you ask something, then that gives intuition about this algorithm, not just to me or to you, but to everybody in the class.

So I want to encourage you to make questions during class.

But I also understand that you feel a little bit shy or you feel a little bit like hard to ask in public.

So I totally understand it.

But I can just say that I encourage you to do it.

Okay.

Locations?

Right.

Then let's just go to the summary slide.

So, yeah, we still have some 10 minutes.

I just think we finished this class compared to how I used to do it before.

But anyway, I think there is not a problem at all.

So we learned some improved versions of the A prior algorithm.

PCY and the multi-stage, multi-hash, random sampling, toy moments algorithm, and so on.

So today we covered various algorithms that are based on various different motivations and ideas on how to, in what way they implement, that they improve the A prior is different from each other.

So it would be good for you to understand how they are different from each other and what ideas they are based on.

Okay.

But I just think today you would have known real deep for this and understanding something because today is not about math, not about theory.

Okay.

So as I introduced, today is the second part of frequent item sets.

And we'll move on to the new topic, like from this Thursday.

I just forgot what it would be.

But as I said, we probably take two days for each topic.

And you can typically say the new thing that we learned is totally different from this one.

So even though you missed some details for this topic, but still you still have a chance to understand the new thing, the new starting point.

So that's just it.

And see you on this Thursday.

