you

ah

a

two

Okay, so it's time.

So let's begin today's class.

So today is the second part of distributed computing.

So after we learned the bad-rubies framework, which is a basic way to distribute computation

into a cluster of many commodity hardware for dealing with large data and large computation,

we will move on to a more advanced framework, which is called Spark.

So you will see that Spark is more generalized and more flexible framework compared to MatReduce.

And let's say you are a programmer, then it would be much easier for you to program something

in Spark compared to MatReduce.

So I guess MatReduce is one of the most popular distributed computing frameworks overall possible

implementations, although Spark has been, I guess it's been more than a decade since

its first launch.

So there are more advanced frameworks as well in the market.

So you can see these new frameworks if you're interested.

But still, I guess Spark is one of the most powerful and influential frameworks overall.

So this is the announcement.

I checked with the department and they said we have no official way to communicate other

than ETL.

We could use Slack or Discord, but I just think for this semester ETL would be not right.

So if you have any questions or you want to discuss something with other students, although

it would be a little hard to do it on ETL, but still we can use ETL for any possible

communications.

And we will also upload all the materials including the slides, videos, and announcements

to ETL.

So please check ETL at least for every week.

And we will also upload Homework 0 today to ETL.

So please check the Homework 0.

And although we are not going to evaluate your submission and you're not going to submit

the Homework 0 at all, but still we encourage you to do Homework 0 before we announce Homework

1 because starting from Homework 1, there will be a Spark programming assignment.

So Homework 0 is basically a tutorial for Spark.

So if you do not do Homework 0, then you will have more things to do for Homework 1.

And we also uploaded an announcement for the computing environment because your programming

assignments will be evaluated in a fixed environment with a fixed version of the packages.

So you really need to check the versions of the packages so that your submitted code

is running well on our side.

So you can check out the announcement.

And so as I said, if you have a question, the basic way of communication is ETL.

So you can upload a question on the ETL, then we'll promptly answer to your questions.

And if your questions are private, if your questions are not, you don't want to share

this question with other people.

Only in that case, please send us an email.

And yeah, so do you have any questions on regarding the course, like how the course

works and everything else?

No?

Great.

So we'll still have the participation score on ETL.

I mean, that's just 2% of all scores.

I mean, not much to determine your grade.

But if you are active, then you'll have a little bit of credit for that.

Alright, let's proceed.

So recap.

I'm not sure you remember Mavibus well.

It was just last Thursday, so I'm pretty sure that you remember this one.

So Mavibus is a framework suitable for RRX files rarely updated in place.

And you note that the condition is mostly for DFS, the distributed file system.

Because Mavibus is built on a distributed file system, it assumes that the

basic file system is distributed.

I guess all of you know that.

And for using this Mavibus framework, a user implements two different functions,

MAD and RRX.

MAD is a function that events a pair of a key and a value to a list of pairs of key

and value.

You know that, right?

And the reduced function is, so because you assume that the group by key, the

conceptual operation is done by the framework, for a reduced function, we can

just write a function that maps the key and the value list into a pair of key and

value.

And if this reduced function satisfies some conditions, then you'll know that

there can be a combiner which optimizes the reduced function by reducing the

amount of shopping between the state and key.

So this is a figure that you need to keep in your mind.

And I guess one of the most important things about this framework is the system

automatically handles those failures, which is the reason why we use these

frameworks.

So today we'll learn only a single thing, Spark.

It's overview, operations, and important features.

Before I introduce the main part, let me introduce the framework, like more

framework.

So memory dose is a programming framework.

So memory dose handles how the computation is done, but when we manage a

cluster, then there are more than the computing.

So let's say you are an engineer, you get a job at a company, and the company

asks you to buy a 10 computers and build a distributed system.

Then you will use a system, like the system software that manages all the

things, and one of such software is called Hadoop.

Hadoop is an open source framework for distributed computing, and memory dose

is, in fact, highly coupled with Hadoop.

And I will show you a figure very soon.

But this Hadoop framework consists of three key components.

First is the file system.

So we use the Hadoop distributed file system, hsns, which is one of the

distributed file systems.

And built upon this file system, there is a manager that manages the

resources and job scheduling across nodes.

And then on top of this manager, there is a processing engine, which is

either memory use or a file or any other framework.

So basically, a distributed computing framework consists of multiple stages,

and in fact, memory use is only one of them, because memory use is built upon

well-controlled resources and the loop.

So in modern Hadoop, when we say the master controller in the last lecture,

the master controller typically refers to this VR, which is in the second stage.

So if you look at the whole figure, then it looks like it.

There is a database for a file system, which is either like Hadoop, HTSS,

or many other things, mostly from Hadoop.

And there is a research manager, like for instance, Hadoop VR.

And on top of that, there is a memory use framework or SPAR.

So in this figure, it shows a SPAR, but it can be a memory use.

Then on top of memory use, there is packages for libraries.

For instance, there is a SPAR, and there are many important libraries

that are built on SPAR, such as Spark SQL or MLlib,

which is a machine learning library built on Spark.

So this is the actual figure, but I will not discuss about the database,

file system, or research manager, because they are mostly on engineering part.

I will focus only on the core API used in SPAR.

But if you want to become a data engineer for a distributed complex cluster,

then you will learn how to use the code manager to state this level as well.

So let me first discuss about the limitations of MapRedress.

I mean, if the MapRedress is great, it can do all the things.

At the same time, then there's no reason to move on to the second one.

So MapRedress, one of the important properties of MapRedress

is that it stores intermediate files on disk.

So we know that every map worker produces an output on its local disk,

which is transferred to the reduced workers controlled by the manager.

So that was the reason why if the map worker fails,

we need to rerun the whole map test because the files are not accessible anymore

if the worker fails.

So there is a main property, but the problem is,

even for the jobs that can be done in vain,

let's say the output of the map worker is very small,

so it doesn't have to be stored on disk.

It can just store the memory and you can just transfer to the MapRedress worker.

The MapRedress worker does not perform such a thing.

It only stores the results on disk.

I mean, disk is, SSD is quite fast these days,

but it feels slower than the main memory, of course.

So that is one part that we want to optimize.

For some data, we want to store them in memory,

because if we know that, this data are not necessary for the further jobs.

Another thing is, MapRedress encourages the substantial overheads for a complex job

because due to data revolution.

What that means is, if you're trying to implement a complicated algorithm with MapRedress,

we need multiple MapRedress iterations that I introduced last time.

For instance, here, it shows that we have two iterations of MapRedress,

and each iteration consists of a map and a reduce.

So the first thing is, the result of a map task is stored on local disk, which is a problem.

But the second problem is, the result of a reduce task is stored on HTMS.

So if we, for instance, combine these two iterations,

the result of the first iteration is stored on HTMS,

which is another problem because storing data on distributed file system

creates an overhead of data replication, they say.

Which is a similar problem to the previous one.

And another problem is, this one and the previous limitation was about mainly the data overhead.

Another thing is, the framework limitation, which is,

many algorithms are not easily described as MapRedress, as I also talked in the last time.

I mean, versus machine learning,

MapRedress consists of only a fixed strong functions of map and reduce,

but you know that many algorithms are very hard to describe with map and reduce functions.

So in the two basic categories, MapRedress is not for every job.

Like memory heavy jobs or like iteration heavy jobs, like that.

So the super core idea that allows us to move on from MapRedress to Spark is a workflow.

Right?

So MapRedress creates a chain of tasks.

Let's think about the chain of tasks, right?

If you look at the left here, then if we combine multiple MapRedress jobs,

then the whole workflow looks like that.

Map, reduce, map, and simple chain.

But what we really want to do is to create a chain,

like a more generalized version of the workflow, which is a directed or cyclic graph.

Because, I mean, in the real world,

the workflow doesn't look like a chain in all cases.

It is a more complicated graph where each module or each block can take multiple outputs from previous blocks.

That is what actual workflow looks like.

So that's what we want to do.

We want to generalize the chain into a back directed or cyclic.

I'm pretty sure all of you know what that is.

So in this way, we'll get a low function to take more than one input,

and we can create more complicated workflow or a complicated algorithm.

And in this way, we'll probably have a master controller, even in this part of the field.

And that master controller will be responsible for dividing work among tasks.

So this is an idea.

Then the following question is, I mean, you always have to ask yourself about to understand something.

So let's say we extend this chain into this set.

One of the most fundamental reasons why we restrict our workflow to this chain is because we really need to ensure no failures.

Like we need to deal with no failures.

But if we create a graph like this, then dealing with no failures becomes a tricky problem.

Because, for instance, if I die, it's a node of I die, then it's hard to determine what to restart,

what to run again, what to get, something like that.

So to ensure a node failure, like robustness, we need a property which is called blocking property.

So a blocking property is a simple rule.

Operation can run only after all its predecessors are completed.

That is why this is not an undirected graph.

So the task of I can be done only after F and H are completed.

Okay, then I start.

So if a task fails, we know that any of its successors didn't start.

Which means if I fail, we know that the node J didn't start because the node failed.

So because of that, we don't have to rerun J or G because we know that they didn't start.

If I fail, we can trace back to its predecessors like F plus H or more nodes like offsite.

Then we run this test to recreate I.

So because we have full information about this graph, we know what to restart and what to do again if a node J.

Okay, so let's say the master controller knows all this information.

Then if a task I fail or if test G fails, then the master controller reassigns that task to another node.

And it reruns the predecessors that are required to run J.

So this graph is okay.

If we know this graph, then we can still create the framework that is full-colorant.

That is a super important thing.

All right.

So because of based on this idea, there is a Spark.

I guess it's we can say the most popular workflow system.

So Spark is a flexible workflow system not limited to MapReaders developed by UC Berkeley and Databricks, now maintained by Apache.

So additions to MapReaders is it directly addresses the limitations of MapReaders.

It allows the best data sharing by allowing to avoid saving intermediate results to the.

So if a programmer wants, he can avoid storing data on this at all, and he can just transfer the data in memory to the other version.

And he can also cache for repetitive parts.

For instance, let's say in this DAG workflow, like you know that this graph can be large for a complicated algorithm.

Then let's say there are 100 more tests upfront of this year.

And if a test fails, for instance, then we can say that 100 nodes should be rerun if we store all the data in memory, which is another problem.

So a programmer can decide when to cache the data on this.

So it gives more power to a programmer when to cache data or when to store data in memory.

So that is a really good thing for a programmer.

And it also supports a general execution graph in DAG form and provides richer functions than MapReaders.

So I'll describe its details.

And it's also compatible with HALF.

So Spark can directly go into the whole framework and replace MapReaders.

All right, any questions so far?

No?

Straightforward, right?

So we understand it's workable.

Then another super important component that composes this framework is a data structure or a data element.

So here Spark uses a data structure called resilient distributed data set, RDD, with the key central data structure.

So RDD is basically a...

So you can safely assume that all the data are RDD in Spark.

So RDD is basically a distributed data.

So when we say an RDD, you can safely assume that the RDD is divided into multiple chunks and will be stored in DNS.

So RDD is basically a all-tolerant data set.

So why is it RDD?

RDD is basically a partitioned collection of records of one time.

So it's basically a list, a simple list, of the elements of one time which are divided into multiple chunks.

So you know that in MapReduce, the basic data architecture was the key-value pair.

So everything was a key-value pair after the MapReduce, after the map test, or after the reuse test.

Everything was a key-value pair.

So Spark generalizes that key-value pairs into RDD.

And of course RDD is a stratotropic collector, and RDD can be cached in Maygaming.

So I guess I was wrong about using the word caching.

So caching is actually storing data from disk in that map.

So anyway, it can be cached.

And RDD is important.

Can it be created from VFS or by transforming other RDDs?

Okay, oh yeah, I was wrong about that.

RDD is not basically stored in VFS.

RDD is stored on disk of multiple machines.

I think that was the correct one.

So let me correct what I just said.

There is a DFF at the starting point, and we create an RDD from a DFF.

And other RDDs are created from other RDDs by transforming RDDs.

So if we create a word pool like this, then basically we assume these RDDs are stored on local disk computers.

And it is best if the same operation is applied to all elements.

So let me give you for example.

Do we have an example?

Okay, later.

So this is the concept.

And in the Spark program, there are two types of operations that work on RDDs.

The transformation and action.

Transformation builds RDDs from other RDDs.

So let's say in this figure, we have an external world which is kind of DFS, and we create RDD from the DFS.

It is like loading the data from a data server.

We create an RDD, and we can transform this RDD to create another RDD.

And this transformation is kind of rather different, but it is much more generalized form.

Like you can include the map, filter, join, union, distinct, sort.

All the functions that we can think of for instance Python program can be a transformation between an RDD.

But one restriction here is because the transformation included an RDD and the output is RDD,

it is basically a mapping from a list of elements to a list of elements.

Because RDD is basically a distributed list of elements, right?

There is one restriction.

And there is an important thing which is called lazy evaluation.

What is that?

So RDD is a distributed fault.

Basically, our assumption is we cannot check the status of RDD during the computation of this framework.

What it means is we don't have to check the RDD.

Because to check the values in RDD, we need to gather all the elements of RDD from multiple machines into a single machine to check the values.

So the system assumes that the user doesn't want to check the RDD.

Then what is good?

We can check the result of RDD only when there is an action.

So action is another type of operation which is used to return value for its core data.

So in this figure, there are three transformations and one action here.

So we can check only the result of action.

We cannot check the result of RDDs, right?

And this action is an operation that returns something to a user program for instance.

So it includes like count, collect, reuse it.

So if you look at the functions there, count is the counting number of elements.

Collect is collecting something and reuse is reducing something.

So action is basically mostly mapping from many elements to fewer elements.

So it is not always the case.

But action is mostly designed to reduce the number of elements from the input to the output.

Because we assume that the result of action is gathered from multiple machines into a single machine as an output.

So the result of action is not an RDD.

The result of action is actually the returning value.

So here comes another important property of Spark, which is the lazy evaluation.

What that means is the user can check the result of action only when the action is completed.

So although we can create a workflow like this,

the system can fully control how transformations can be done in the intermediate stage.

Because the user doesn't have a way to know what is happening here.

So when you write a Spark program, and let's say you write a Spark program in Python,

and you can by line, by line, you can write Spark transformations, right?

One transformation, two, three, and four like that.

And these transformations are done only when there is an action.

So when there comes an action, then the master controller organizes all the workflows of the transformation when there is an action.

So that allows room for optimization for Spark.

Because when a Spark runs a job, it knows how this tag looks like, how these transformations are composed of.

That is the meaning of lazy evaluation.

It doesn't evaluate the result until there is an action to check the result.

So because of this lazy validation property, the Spark system controls how to draw these workflows.

Whether to merge operations, whether to split the operations, whether to cache data, whether to not cache data like that.

Alright, any questions?

So the first part is mostly about introducing the concepts.

So you might think the details are not very clear in this moment, but it will be okay if we go further, like to part two or part three.

So if you have questions, no?

No.

Memory disk does not support such a flexibility.

So memory disk strictly imposes that the result of map test is stored on disk, the result of reduce is stored on DFS, and that's all.

Yeah.

We cannot cache data in memory, and we cannot determine the workflow or something like that.

If you think about it, that's because the objective of memory disk, when it was first designed, it was not designed to support various operations.

It was designed by Google, who really wanted to optimize their matrix vector multiplications for their web search problems.

So memory disk is a great framework, but the goal of its design is different for Spark.

So after the success of memory disk, people thought, okay, this really computing can be the future of data analysis.

So Spark people created this part to generalize the memory disk by introducing the functions that were not supported by memory disk.

So that is the reason why Spark is much more flexible than memory disk.

But still, memory disk, so I will show you this slide later.

There is one slide to compare memory disk and Spark.

So I mean, I will explain it later.

But in today's class, I will say that Spark seems like a much better framework than memory disk, but it is not all the case.

Because as a computer scientist, we always think about the trade-off.

Spark has more flexibility, which incurs more overhead control.

There are more jobs that a master controller needs to do to optimize them.

But if your job is really simple, if you are going to do is a really a simple matrix vector multiplication that doesn't require a complicated set of memory stops,

then memory disk can be a faster and more reliable framework.

So a programmer chooses what computing engine to use when they build this really computing cluster.

And after that, they have to just program in that framework.

Right, okay, more questions?

Suppose we have a path that can be performed with memory disk.

I think biodegradable engines can technically emulate a lot of map reviews.

And if we do the same path, if we were to do a path that can be done in map reviews,

is it faster to use Spark to emulate map reviews or just use the map reviews in the first place?

Great question.

So I will also talk about that later, but it depends on what the job is.

So for instance, if the job doesn't require complicated iterations or the caching, for instance,

then we can say map reviews is, it's hard to say map reviews is faster, but we can say map reviews is easier to use.

Because for instance, since map reviews does not support the caching operation,

that means we do not have to care about the memory size of the computing nodes at all.

Because map reviews is designed for super cheap computers.

But when we use Spark, because its basic function is it tries to optimize the functions,

then it tries to load something into memory as much as it can.

So it means that we need to think more about our computing resources

and more about the overhead that the master controller has.

So if the job is simple, it can be described by, for instance, one or two map reviews jobs

without severe disk overhead, then map reviews can be better for engineering perspective.

And of course, you're right, Spark can do every job that can be done by map reviews.

But I don't think Spark is always better than map reviews.

Great. More questions?

The basic data structure which is in between the two tasks here, which is in the arrow,

is the RDD. And RDD is not fault resilient. RDD is distributed data, and that is distributed

across the nodes. So if we do nothing, then if we fail, the app should be ruined.

So there are two choices. First, we can cache RDD in memory, which means we don't store

the results of RDD on disk at all. That speeds up the process, and that is good if the result of

app is instantly used by G, but not in other way anywhere. Because in that case, we can just keep

the stage of storing data on disk. That is one thing. Another thing is, if we really believe that

the output is at the soy porn, and we want to make sure that the data is fault resilient,

then we can choose to store data on DFS. So that is the opposite of caching. It is like to store

data on DFS. In that case, even though the test G fails, we don't have to rerun it, because we

can just remove the data from the DFS. But then flexibility is a good thing for us.

Great. So let me proceed into an actual operation. So you will have a more clear picture

on how this part works in PimbaBlock. So operation. I mean, it's always good to learn something by

example, right? So the example here is an average word length by letter. The problem is, we are given

a large text file, and for each letter from A to D, our question is, what is the average length of

words that start with P, like, O? This is a simple problem. So if you want to do it with averages,

we'll probably do it in this way. We map. So we assume that the input, the initial keyword

pair is the line index and line, and here line index is nothing because it's enormous. And we

have that because the input should be a keyword pair. Then our map function should be, I mean,

it is not the only way to input this, but should be mapping the first letter of this word into

the value of its length for every word in line. So that is basically a map function.

And then the reduce function is given a word and a list of length, then we will map this into a

pair of words and the mean of this. So it looks good. So in fact, because of this one, this job

doesn't need to be run in Spark because it is too simple, but I'll just describe how to do it in

Spark. Okay. So the first thing is we need to load data from a DFS to our RDE. So yeah, I guess

it's another type of a line right there, but in the DFS, we have a large data. We load the data

into an RDE, which is, as I said, distributed like the way to store data in our computers.

So in Python, so Spark was not implemented in Python originally, but people use Python versions

of Spark if it's easier to use. So SC is shortened for a Spark content. That is like what we pull

every time when we want to use Spark. SC.mixfile is to load data from DFS into an RDE, which is

straightforward. Then we apply a flat map function. So I will describe its function later,

but a flat map function is basically the same as a map in values. So the input of flat map is a

function that maps a line into something. So we can look at this RDE. The first RDE is an RDE of

text line. So each element is a string, right? So after we apply this flat map, we create another

RDE, which is to split its line to words. So then you can say the second RDE is a list of words,

like list of strings the same, but there will be no white spaces and strings, right? Because we split

the sentence into multiple words. And you apply map. So map is similar to flat map, but it's more

restricted version. So I will describe later. But by applying map, we transform its word into a pair

with the first word and its length, right? Then we run the group by key. So here we really need

explicit operation of group by key, which is not included in Babridge. Because the whole goal of

this part is to give more flexibility to a programmer. So we do a group by key here,

and that is a shuffling. So when we look at a lot of arrows between RDE, that is called a shuffling,

and that costs a lot of time because it really needs to exchange data. But we kind of need to

avoid using group by key because we really need to gather the data with the same key, right?

Then we also apply a map function, which maps a key and value list like length list into a key

and the average length. So not difficult, right? Then we run an action. Okay, so there is no action.

So at this point, we are pretty sure that RDE is small enough because we know how it works. So here

we call a function like collective, which is an action, which returns the results to our local

computer. So when an action is called here, the Spark optimizes all the transformations of that.

So that is, as I said, the lazy evaluation, but here is no action there. All the things that are

done here are transformations. So this is just one I said. There are two basic dependencies in Spark,

which are wide and narrow dependencies. Here, when I say shuffling, is a wide dependency, which puts

a lot of weight. And by definition, a wide dependency happens when its partition is

dependent on by multiple tile partition. So let me explain it later. But other than the wide

dependency, there is a narrow dependency, which is parallelizable operation. So as a programmer,

we really want to increase the number of narrow dependencies while minimizing the number of wide

dependencies. That is like the performance of a programmer. So I guess there will be no questions

until this point. So let me introduce one operation by operation. FlatMap is a transformation that

applies the function to every element. Same as very user-friendly map, but there's no restriction on

the type. So you can take any RDD. It doesn't have to be a kilo here. So it maps any object into a

list of zero or more objects. So the output numbers can vary based on the input. And all the lists are

flat mapped into a single RDD of output objects. So what it means is if we apply a flat map,

as shown in this figure, then multiple lines can contain different numbers of words. For instance,

sentence 1 contains three words. The sentence 2 can contain 100 words. So when we apply a flat map,

it's flattened the output, which means the result is simply a list or an RDD of words

where we don't care what words are coming from what sentences. The result is a simple RDD. So

that's the reason why the RDD looks like that. I use the dashed line between the

chunk figure, because at this point, although it's not a white dependence, it's still a narrow

dependency, but the outputs, we can say, are flattened into a single RDD.

But MAP is a little bit different. MAP is a stricter version of the flat map transformation,

because it forces to create exactly one object from each input element. So if you look at this

MAP function, we know that every input is transformed to exactly one object, but there is

no flat main of line, as shown here. Then why do we need these two different functions? Because

when we can use MAP instead of flat MAP, it is always better to use MAP, because it gives more

freedom to control to the system, because the system knows that the output is exactly one,

that the system can do more things to optimize the operations.

So we can change the MAP into a flat MAP if we want, but that is not recommended.

And there is another operation like filter. Let's say in the same problem, we add this one

additional line to the algorithm, which is a filter. So we want to check whether a word is a

stop word or not. Then a filter is another transformation that takes a predicate that applies

the RDD object type, and then it returns elements that satisfy the predicate.

I mean, it's straightforward, right? It just filters the RDD into another RDD. So it is better

to apply as early as possible to reduce the RDD size. So that is, as I said, the programmer's job

to optimize them. If some transformations reduce the size of our data, it should be applied as

early as possible, because that optimizes the whole other data. So the amount of optimization

that a Spark program does depends on the actual implementation. But if a Spark is really smart,

let's say, then probably it can also change the order of transformation. It really believes that

the output is the same, right? So what a Spark does with the lazy validation is similar to

compiling it. It takes the list of transformation, and when there is an action, it compiles all the

operations to make the best results with the best optimized workbook. And there is a reduce.

Reduce is an action, not transformation. So the result of action is not an RDD, it just returns

a value. So I guess the example is simplified to show you how the reduce works. But here,

after the math function, let's say there is a reduce function. Reduce function takes a parameter,

which is a function that maps a pair of elements into a single element. So by repeatedly applying

this function to the list elements inside an RDD, it returns only a single value. Because

recursively, by taking this function, it can reduce any long list into a single element.

And here we have a strict restriction on the function. It should be associative and

communicative. You know the reason why. Because these are important to make sure that the result

is consistent as expected by the program. So if you use Python, and if you implement this

inside your Python program, then the abg length variable should be a single number.

It is not an RDD. So you can actually use that number inside this program to do more useful jobs.

So you don't have to really remember all these operations, but if you know what they mean,

that is really straightforward for you. For instance, there is a join. I'm not sure whether

you took the test of database or not. The join is a fundamental operation on database. It merges

two RDDs of key values based on their key. So for instance, it takes the RDD1, RDD2, and let's say

this RDD consists of key values here. Then for every pair, kx from RDD1 and ky from RDD2, it creates

kx and y here. So it joins the elements from work to our RDDs based on their keys. And join is quite

important for many opportunities. For instance, if you look at this example, here comes a new function,

parallelize. What is a parallelize? It is a mapping from our local variable to an RDD. If you program

in Python, let's say here we create an example list of two elements at the local disk, right? But we

want it to be an RDD, so we call this function as c.parallelize. Then x is an RDD, y is an RDD with

keys a and b. If we apply x.joinby, which means we run a join operation between x and y, and we call

collect, which is an action that literally takes an RDD into a local variable. So collect does not

reduce an RDD size, but it just returns an RDD. So collect can explore your program. If you apply

collect to a large RDD, you should be really careful on calling collect. But if you look at

the result, the result is an RDD of x, a1 to a1 entry. Important thing, join creates a y dependency.

Why is that? Because we really need to compare all the chunks between these two RDDs to apply

this join operation. There is no way to avoid applying join without creating a y dependency.

Group by key. Straightforward, which is a transformation that is the same as

reproduce group by key. It's an RDD of key-value pairs and produces an RDD of key-value list pairs.

I don't have to explain this too much, but it creates a y dependency.

All right, so let's just simply compare a wide and narrow dependencies. So the question is,

can flat map create multiple partitions from one? So flat map is a confusing operation because it is

not exactly a mapping from one chunk to another chunk. Because chunk sizes can be really asymmetric

between different chunks because of the input property. So a flat map can create multiple

partitions from one as shown in this figure. If the chunk sizes are really asymmetric, really

different from each other. So it can be a one to many function. Then the following question is,

does it create a y dependency? Well, probably not. Because if partition is R1, it will come from only

one partition. So we don't have to refer sharply. That's because we create two partitions from one

partition. So I mean, you see that this is a simple exam question that I can have, right? Whether this

operation is having a y dependency or a narrow dependency. Although it's super easy, so I'm not

going to have it on our exam. But you know the difference, right? So as a Spark programmer,

you really need to reduce the RDD size as early as possible. You need to minimize the number of y

dependencies and all sorts of things. So different Spark programmers can create the same programming,

same program, but with different optimization performance. Okay, so okay, there is a pop quiz.

Is it different? Okay, so before doing this pop quiz, any questions so far?

No? Okay, then as the last time, I will come back here when I have more time. Okay, so the pop quiz

is basically this one. So there are many other transformations and actions of Spark. If you look

at it, if you go to the Spark official website, you will see a lot of transformations in there.

For instance, there is a reduceByKey function, which is basically a combination of the groupByKey

and the reduce function. And you will understand why there is a function such as groupReduceByKey,

because if we apply a reduceByKey instead of combining groupByKey and reduce, the system

knows it better. The system can optimize better because the system knows that, okay,

this guy is the reduceByKey. Then, so if we call a reduceByKey and if the function is

associative and commutative, then the Spark can do a combined thing, because it knows that

the results of groupByKey is needed only for the reduce function. But if you apply this groupByKey

and reduce separately, and the Spark doesn't know how to optimize it, then the Spark will create

an explicit list of values before applying the reduce function. So as a programmer, we always

need to have a more strict version as much as possible to give more flexibility to the system.

So the pocket here is to implement work taught using reduceByKey, so I will come back if I

need more time. All right, that's just it. And I guess there are no questions, right? I'll ask

again. Great. So let me go to the implementation part. I guess, let's see what is there. Okay,

okay. There are not many slides, so I think we'll end sooner than the time, but let me proceed.

The implementation part. If you compare Spark and memory juice, there are similarities and

improvements. So I guess all of you now understand what RDD is. So similarities is RDD is divided into

chunks, which are given to different ones. I mean, that is the core idea of this theory of computing,

so that is the same as memory juice. And transformation on RDDs can be performed in parallel on chunks,

which is again the core idea of this theory of computing. But there are two key improvements of

memory juice, which are lazy validation, basically for efficiency and lineage for RDDs,

for control problems. Let me explain this very soon. Lazy validation. I already talked a lot

about the lazy validation because it's so important for Spark. Spark does not apply transformations

until it is retired to boost scope. Okay, so, retired to boost scope means storing an RDD to

all systems or returning a little to the application is done by an action. So thanks to lazy

validation, Spark can optimize execution plans and combine transformations, minimizing the number of

tasks. For instance, if a Spark is intelligent enough, then it will combine group by key and

reduce if the system knows that it can be replaced with reduce by key. Then by doing this, it can

optimize the workflow a little bit. That is basically what it does. Okay, and for instance,

if the Spark believes that the result of R1, for instance, is used instantly by R2 and not elsewhere,

then the Spark can determine to store the result of R1 in memory of the computing. So this is like

automatic optimization of Spark. So by default, Spark tries to use memory as much as possible.

Because Spark can instantly be transferred to R1 and it can determine to catch the data in memory

without using this algorithm. But if I don't want that to happen, then I can choose again

to say that not to catch data here explicitly or to store data in the data if the data is really

important. So this flexibility, this functionality of Spark makes it a little more complicated to

think about compared to memory. I mean, in memory, everything is simple and easy, but here

I really have to think about optimizations that this Spark does. Example, okay. Common words are

not stop words in the document. So we first, let's say we apply a plan map to input R0 to create

w,1 times R1. This is a word counting example, which is very simple. And we apply to filter

to its chunk in R2 to produce R1 to produce R2. Only if R2 is stored in DFS by reduced action,

then R1 and R2 are actually produced and subsequently dropped at previous. Okay, next.

And another part, resilience of RDDs. Spark records the lineage of every RDD for

all nodes. Why is it lineage? So it is a state that is very closely related to the blocking

property. So for every RDD, there is a, you can say there is a variable that tracks its

parents. For example, here, the master controller knows the whole thing, but if you look at a local

perspective, R2 has a single variable that tells you that, okay, your parent is R1. If you go to

R1, there is a variable that says, okay, my parent is algebra from my family. So let's say if R2 is

locked, then the master controller looks at the variable that, okay, the spotter is R1. Then it

goes to R1 and if R1 is lost, then it goes to R0, something like that. So it tracks back from the

lost RDD or a lost node to some outcome like that. But if you look at this RDD, it is very rare to

expect all this RDD is lost because no failure is happening inside this RDD for chunk level.

So let's say you have a RDD, so suddenly we cannot offset this chunk because it's not failed.

Then it knows the lineage of this chunk. So a more important thing, a detail is the lineage is not

between RDDs, it's between chunks. So that's important. So this chunk, the father of this chunk

is maintained as this loop because this is a loop, RDD is a master structure. So you can think of the

lineage in the RDD level, R2, R1, R2. But you can think of this RDD as a chunk level, lineage in a

chunk level because this chunk is created from this chunk. This can be the same node, but these

loops can be different based on the operating. Probably at least in this case, I guess all three

chunks will be the same node because there is no reason why this chunk should be distributed to other

nodes, I guess. But that is just controlled by Spark Manager.

So you get the point, I think. So today I just mostly introduced the basic concepts and ideas

of Spark. So to learn more about writing Spark applications, you can read the file there,

or you can look at the original paper which was produced in 2012. So it's been

after like 10 years and 4,000 since its first announcement, but it has become one of the most

influential primaries, it says. And of course, we will have Format 0, which will guide you to become

more familiar with writing Spark. Comparison. Mavridus is of course faster than traditional

algorithms, but we can say Spark can be much faster than Mavridus thanks to all its optimization

techniques. So Mavridus is basically optimized for batch processing. It has a very strict

data line, but Spark can give us a more accurate data for something like machine learning jobs if

we are really optimizing the tasks in memory, not on this. I mean, although it should be slower than

a single machine algorithm because of all the wide dependencies that are created by some operations,

but we can still optimize Spark and those. And here we've come back to easier than Mavridus.

Easier means it is easier to write a program. Like if you have a 100-line Python code, then you

you will have a severe headache if you want to implement your algorithm on Mavridus. But it's

easier for a programmer to write Spark. But I can say it's harder to manage the resources

in Spark. You have more things to control in terms of Spark. And no caching in Mavridus, but

in Spark, it catches data in memory when it can, and it enhances the system performance.

So when to use what? Mavridus is good for linear processing of large data. Here the linear means

the chain of workloads. And a simple task easily read and reduced can be done in Mavridus.

Opline, large-scale, fast-talk. Spark, on the other hand, is best for interactive data processing

for a 30- and real-time job like machine learning for this month. Especially when it has sufficient memory.

So here comes the summary. So I guess I didn't expect to finish today's class this early.

So just let me go back to the pop quiz and I'll give you just two or three minutes

for doing this pop quiz before we finish today's class. So the pop quiz is, as I said,

you can implement the word count using reduceByKey. So click right, although it should be

just very easy for you, and I'll just give you two or three minutes.

And I think the word count here is a simple word count that we learned from Mavridus,

not the complicated one in the today's slides.

Okay, it's not that difficult, right? Anyone has been done? No? Okay, I'll give you just...

Okay, I guess it's just a matter of time, so I'll just get you the answer. Okay, so let's think

about the word count example. I guess we first assume what the original data looks like, right?

So probably we will take the data, like I see as before, next file from a DFFed product, right?

And then, so the result of this one is an RDB, so we can just put a comma here and put more

transformations here if you want to save space. Then what do we need? I guess probably we need

a flat map as before, right? Flat map, lambda w into, what is the comma, right? I mean this

straight board. Then we apply the reduced by key, saying that...

Oh, okay, here's w, a, I'm not sure how... Okay, w, b, w.

I don't have to write a key here, right? Just a comma b.

Yeah, that's it. It's almost the same as map reduce, right? Because, so here we see a point.

The reduced task in map reduce is actually a reduced by key in Spark, and the map task in

map reduce is actually a flat map in Spark, so we have different names, right? And reduced in Spark

is not the same as the reduced in map reduce, and the map in Spark is not the same as the map in

MapChest, so please make sure that differences. Yeah.

Should be first, next. First five words.

Ah, yeah, great point. I just forgot that. So probably here, probably first, yeah, there

should be... So I guess this should be a split. The split of lines in the multiple words, and there

also should be a map, and this should be a map, and the flat map function should be the splitting.

So yeah, thank you for that. I just forgot that.

So let me go to the final slide. So Spark is, as I said, it's a great framework for doing things,

and as I said, for our entire course, we will have at least one Spark program assignment for everyone,

from homework one to homework four. It's not actually that we really need to learn Spark,

but it's more like to give you more experience on how to write a program in a distributed

environment, not in the typical single machine setting where you say you assume all the data

can be loaded into main memory, but in many cases, we need to assume the data cannot be loaded in

memory of a single machine. So that is the reason why we study Spark, and you will get used to using

Spark throughout our course, okay? So in our first week, we learned memory-reduced Spark,

which are basically frameworks. They are not exactly solutions to problems, but they are more

environments. But starting from this Thursday, we will cover different problems and different

algorithmic solutions to solve problems. So when I say our course's combination of algorithms,

math, theory, and implementation, something like that, this topic is mostly about engineering and

implementation. Some topics of our course will be about mathematics. Some topics will be about

theory. Some topics will be about algorithms. So you will see how diverse topics can be

grouped as a single topic as a data mining. So that's all for today. Before we finish,

any questions so far? No? Great. So let's call it a day and see you next Thursday.

