Okay, shall we start? So good afternoon everyone. Today we talk about the second part of recommender

systems and today will be the official last class that will be included to the midterm.

So you will have one more like over a week to study everything that we covered for the

first half of the semester and then we have even many classes before the midterm, right?

For the first, like one of them, I will probably do a review. It will be not much, but I will

just briefly review what we have learned for the first half and probably I can give you some hints

for the midterm, but I'm not sure. But like you don't expect too much from the review.

And then for the one remaining class before the midterm, I'll just talk about the second topic,

which will be mostly for the final. So you don't have to worry about having like the

new topic before the midterm. So you will just have to study until the recommendation day.

And announcements are the same, I mean exactly the same. So there is a homework too. And I saw

most of you have submitted homework one. I saw like 80 of you have submitted and almost all the

other students had dropped from the class, which is okay. And there is homework two. And homework

three includes, as I said, a math challenge, which is a small challenge that you can try to

do your best for yourself to achieve the best score possible for unseen test data that we have.

So it's not much for like for the overall grade. So if you are busy or if you don't want to push

yourself too much because like having stress, you can feel free to do this homework question.

If you have some time, if you have some energy, and if you really want to do some little project

for yourself or preparing your future career, then you can put your time into that question.

That will be fun. And of course we have the midterm and the official announcement is uploaded to ETL.

So it's like that the time is the one on the class time. I guess it will be the next Thursday.

And it will everything is just as is. And we have uploaded our previous exams from KAIST. I'm not

sure it's allowed to share like exams from KAIST because that actually belongs to my previous school.

But anyway, so I shared like the last two years exams from the same class of KAIST. And if you

look at it, it would be difficult. But it's more difficult than I would probably do in

as a new because the exam time was longer there than in KAIST. And it was an open book while we

will have a closed book exam. So it will not be as difficult as in the previous exam, but we can

actually see what type of questions are like for the exam. So that's mostly all announcement that

I want to have. So if you have any questions regarding the course or the midterm or like good.

So I just say our first part of recommender system was not difficult to follow. I mean,

I just introduced the basic concept of recommender system, like what it is, why we have to do it,

and why it's important. And I just covered two very basic recommender system of great stuff,

like content-based recommendation and collaborative filtering. In fact, they were based on very simple

rules that are designed by engineers, like content-based recommendations was about

recommending a similar content item based on the profiles that we have for the contents like the

genres of the movies, like actors of the movies, like that. And the collaborative filtering,

on the other hand, focuses on the interactions between users' items. It explicitly avoids using

external data like titles or all the other information of items in your list, but it just

focuses on the interactions. It uses the rows of the interaction utility matrix and columns of the

utility matrix as kind of representations of users' items respectively. And it compares different

rows and compares different columns of the utility matrix to estimate the similarity between users

and that between items. So designing a good similarity measure was one of the important

design choices for collaborative filtering. But we have seen that as long as we have a proper way

of measuring the similarity, the result recommendation makes sense for the user side or the item side.

And you remember that this collaborative filtering has two variants, like user-user,

they almost are the same except what axis they focus on from the utility matrix, either the row

or the column. And I just covered the Netflix challenge, which was one of the biggest events

in this whole community, although it was a little old. So we have seen some actual cases of

recommendations and what we need to think about when we design our actual recommender system.

But although, as I said, recent modern recommender systems are far more advanced compared to those

submitted to Netflix challenge. But as I said, our class is not about learning modern ML deep

learning techniques, but we are mostly about learning how to fundamentally approach these

different models. So we're not covering this modern fancy recommendation.

Okay, you don't have questions for the recap, right? So today is the second part of recommender

system. And probably today will be the first that I actually mentioned machine learning in our class.

And our second half is a lot more about machine learning, because as I said, many data mining

algorithms recently are designed based on machine learning techniques, because machine learning is

super powerful. So although our first half is not much of a machine learning, it's a lot more

about machine learning. But as we proceed more and more, I will talk more about ML and CL.

But in the perspective of data mining, in perspective of machine learning, because you will

have different machine learning forces. So the first algorithm, and I think the most important

algorithm, if I have to choose one important algorithm in the whole community of recommender

system, then I choose this one, the one that we call UV decomposition, or one we call

relation vector model, which are the same. So let's think about the goal of recommendation.

Recommendation is basically like, I mean, the definition of recommendation

depends on what data structure that we assume from the system. But if you assume a utility

matrix, a simple utility matrix between users and items with ratings inside, then the recommendation

task is defined as filling in the blank utility. And if we are able to fill in the blank very well

with awkward numbers, then sorting these items and actually recommending some of the items to users

with trivial things. So the core information, the core operation that we need to do to fill

in these missing elements is to get user and item representations. So you can think about it,

and content-based upon creates user-item profiles from external data, and you compare these profiles to do

with recommendation. So we can consider these profiles with representations,

and culinary filtering uses the rows and columns of the utility matrix as their representation.

So representation is more abstract way to tell what information they want to use for recommendation.

So today we'll learn latent factor model, which assume that there are some latent factors that

represent users and items well, and such latent factors can be extracted from the utility matrix.

And these latent factor models are basically collaborating to change because it focuses on

user-item interactions with all the external data. So what it means is, it's the same with

the culinary filtering that uses the utility matrix as the core information. It does not use any external data,

so it is different from content-based reports in that sense. But what is more important thing is,

it does not use the rows or columns of the utility matrix without changing that. It changes the utility matrix

so that it can extract some latent factors from the utility matrix, which are better to explain the behaviors of users.

That is the reason why it is called the latent factor model. So let's look at the behavior of the utility matrix.

It's the reason why it is called the latent factor model because it extracts latent factors.

So because its philosophy, how it works is the same as traditional collaborative filtering that

we just learned in our previous session in a way that they fully focus on the utility matrix.

When people say that they use collaborative filtering, then in most cases they refer to

the latent factor model, not the traditional collaborative filtering. So although at least in our class,

I will separate them either as a collaborative filtering or as a latent factor model for more like

awkward use of wording. But in many cases, when you read some papers or when you read some

documents from outside, when they mention collaborative filtering, they refer to this model,

latent factor model, not the traditional one, because it's much more popular and usable.

So let's think about the idea. If we assume there are latent factors, then the next question is,

what are those latent factors and how can we summarize the idea for it in terms of latent factors?

Our basic idea for thinking of latent factor model is we consider the utility matrix R

as the product of vector matrix U and V. So here we have the utility matrix R, right?

The n by n matrix, which is 1. And we consider that there are two vector matrices U and V

whose products can approximate the matrix R. So it is similar to the SVD. I will talk about

the similarity between the SVD. But in a big picture in an algorithmic way, what we do here

is we consider the latent factor model is in fact a vectorization of the utility matrix into U

and V, not 3. Okay, there's a difference from a feed. And we assume that, so if you think about

these two vector matrices, there's matrix R and n by k. So you can transpose, create some entries

of size and by n, which is the same as the utility matrix, so we can directly compare these two

matrices. But if you think about the one, each one, it's matrix is m by k. So and this matrix is

m by k. So here k is a parameter, hyperparameter that we can choose for designing the algorithm.

And k corresponds to the R value of SVD, which was also tunable by the engineer. And here k

represents latent factors. And for something like this, that k to 3, let me assume every user and

every ID can be represented as a combination of three latent factors. Although we don't know what

these latent factors really mean. That will be examined later, like in a post-processing. But we

can at least know that we are going to model this user's ID to three latent factors. And that makes

sense because I think the first reason is we literally dealt with this utility matrix when we

were learning SVD. I mean, recommender system is closely related to the mathematical property of

this matrix. So we can expect that by successfully decomposing the utility matrix, we can get some

deeper insights from the matrix. And it also makes sense because the relationship between users and

items will be described by more sensible things like the genre statement factors or directors,

although they are not explicitly given as external data. But if the unit matrix is very

consistent and it is of very high quality, then you assume every k means something,

would mean some latent factor that actually determines how this user can be a coordinate

item. So the expressive algorithm for decomposing the utility matrix into a unit is called a UB

composition, which composes R into U and V while summarizing its union will be as a low-dimensional

k-dimensional vector. I mean, since we have already learned SVD, the concept of the composition is not

new, right? So a little more formal definition of this UB composition. We're given an m by n utility

matrix R, like m equals to n items, and we aim to find m by k matrix U and n by k matrix V, such that

UB transpose closely approximates m for the non-blank entry, which is a little different from SVD.

Our R is not a full dense matrix, it has a blank, and we are not sure what number we should build in

in this point. So when we execute our R with our approximation matrix UB transpose, we only care

about the non-blank. We do not use the blank entries into consideration of this error. So that is

one difference. And then let's say we have found U and V variable. Let's say we have succeeded in

decomposing the given matrix into a product U and V. Then, since we assume that our latent

vectors are good, our latent coefficient functions are good, for only our fundamental

test feeling in the missing blank, we can just greatly compute the non-product between

usual latent vectors and non-definite latent vectors to estimate the missing blank. For example,

if you think about that one, like the black one here, like third row and the second column,

then for estimating that element, we can start from the third user-equilibrium patient,

and then the second item-equilibrium patient to reconstruct that thing. So what I'm going to say is,

as long as we have very good U and V matrices, recommendation becomes very trivial or great,

because we can just directly compute the dot model of first-quality user and item

representations to fill in that one. In fact, this is all about what we learned from the

latent vector model. We learned U and V very well. We find U and V from the given matrix by

minimizing this error between the original matrix and the approximating matrix for the

non-blank entries, and then for actual recommendations, we just get the representations

of users and items to fill in the blank for recommendation. I mean, this is all very straightforward.

Then the following question is, okay, and how can we find U and V? I mean, we have spent many slides

for learning how to do SVD for a given matrix, right? So probably we should also learn something

like mathematical, like the fancy algorithm for finding U and V, but the answer is no. We're not

going to take a mathematical, elegant approach to find U and V. We'll take a more coarse, more rough

approach, which is called gradientism. I will talk about it later. So what we want to define before

going into the actual error function, sorry, actual learning algorithm is an error function.

How are we going to measure the difference between the original matrix and the approximate?

And we will measure the error in terms of RMSE, blue base error, which is a simple error measure

between two matrices, where here is a set of non-blank entries. So we just compute the

shapers between the original entry and our approximate entry and start with it, and we

sum this pair of errors for all the non-blank entries related to this error, which is almost

the same as the previous one, although we have the division there, which is not making

this big difference, but we are going to measure the error in that RMSE anyway. And just as a

complementary, you know that our prediction for from user X to item I is basically a simple

null product between user and item I. So here what we want to minimize is some of the

square different distances between these original and unoptimated elements. So we will use SSE instead of our

RMSE in most cases, because we don't want to compute that expensive square root norm which changes the

gradient curve into a real rate. So we just compute SSE, which is simply a version that removes the

shear loop and division function, which makes more like a convenient way to compute the error, but

they are basically equivalent. So when we say we use an RMSE, then in some cases we use SSE instead of RMSE.

So let's think about these two matrices. We have arm consisting of three non-blank entries, and

we get a UV transpose, which is created from our UMB. Then we compute the error between these two, and the error seems to be

large, right? 1.8. So we update our matrices UMB in a way that this error is decreased, like minimized.

So we just update our UMB again and again in an iterative manner until this error is minimized.

That's what we call by training.

Any questions so far?

Ahar, it says turn forward. So let's simply compare UBD composition versus SBD.

I mean, let me just clarify one thing. For this UBD composition, there are no constraints on

what properties that this UMB should set in mind. Should they be order-bordled, like order-normal

between each other? I mean, we have no constraints at all. Our only purpose of doing a UBD

composition is to minimize RMSE for the non-blank entry. That is like a big difference for SBD, right?

So let's think about the relationship between UB and SBD for more information. So we know that

SBD is also a well-defined decomposition of any matrix into a product of three matrices, U,

sigma, and V. And we also know that there is a notion of R, which all corresponds to the main

factors. The effect is R and K in the UBD composition are almost equivalent concepts,

because that's exactly how I explained SBD in our previous lecture. So in terms of the similarity,

we can say both can choose the number of latent factors from the input side. We can just simply

determine the value of R or K as an input. And if you look at SBD, if you compare this to sigma,

we use ISU to remember that our V can be seen as a transformation of matrices from

x-axis corresponding to BCA. And the multiplication of this U and sigma can be considered as a

projection of user entries, like row entries into these new x-axis. So if you think about U

and sigma, they're a product of a single matrix, let's say U prime. And if we think about V,

then we can consider this U prime and V are the factor matrices for UBD composition,

because that's possible because, as I said again, we have no constraints from UBD composition.

So as long as we have two good matrices for estimating the original matrix, it is okay to

consider that this U sigma is a new U and V is a new V for UBD composition. It's okay to assume that.

So that is the big similarity between UBD composition and SBD.

But if they are the same, then there's no reason to study UBD composition. So there is a huge

difference between the two. First, SBD is more like a mathematical framework, which has a great

property of the SBD. We can say the SBD is the best possible solution for low-ranked approximation,

which is a great property. But for the UBD composition, even here, our goal of designing

for using this algorithm is to do well on recommendations. So we are not going to introduce

these complicated mathematical properties. For instance, here we need not to be order of matrices

anymore because we really just don't perform for recommendation. And the second thing is,

our UBD composition, I will talk about it later, relies on statistic optimization of U and V,

not the close for fancy solutions as in SBD. So you can consider UBD as a more relaxed version of

SBD for recommendation. And then another difference is our UBD composition seeks generalization to

same data as we have seen from Netflix. Recommendation is not about reducing error

or to observe entry. This is more like estimating unseen ratings by predicting

unseen ratings from the length in the utilities. So there are many differences coming from this

generalization perspective. First, UBD ignores the missing entries, not treating them as errors.

It's important for using matrix. And UBD minimizes RMSE among the training person, not all. So among

the non-missing, like non-flat entries on the utility matrix, we also divide the utility training

portion and test portion properly and use only the training portion because we want to design our

question to be generalizable to the test portion. So because of these two reasons, the larger K is

not necessarily there. So in terms of SBD, we just know that larger R decreases error. And I mean,

we should pick the optimal R for our goal, but for SBD, it doesn't harm the algorithm. But here,

since our primary goal is generalization, it is important to why it fleets the value of the K.

Because larger K may increase test RMSE, like RMSE for test data, which we cannot observe from the

training time. That's it. So I use the terms like training and test frequently for this class,

because as I said, UBD composition is basically a machine learning algorithm. And I'll explain why

in the second part. But I mean, these days, you all know at least what machine learning is,

because you probably took one or more classes. But I will just assume, as before, that you are not

an expert in machine learning. So any questions, Lumber? No? Straightforward, right? Straightforward.

So let's summarize. UBD composition is on a great plan that creates two vector matrices for

recommendation. As long as we have the vector matrices, recommendation is straightforward

by computing the dot product between user and item latent vectors. Then the remaining question is,

how can we find a suitable UBD for minimizing this other function? So here comes machine learning.

Given data deep, we want a function f to solve a problem b. And this problem is either like the

frequent test mining, like the closed training, like the finding similar items, all these topics

that we covered until so far refers to a different problem. So in traditional data mining, engineers

like us designed this function on our own. For instance, we designed a priori, we designed k-means,

we designed almost all the algorithms that we've covered so far, for only this testing problem.

And we can say that algorithms that we have learned are really successful for solving this problem,

and that's the reason why we learned that. But in terms of machine learning, we do not create such

algorithmic solutions for the problem. We learn the solution from the data, which is the fundamental

difference. So it requires two things. The first thing is not just to explain, but the first thing

is designing the structure of that. Because what we learn is the parameters of that. We cannot learn

the structure, like functional form of that itself. So we create a functional form of that first, which

is what we call a hyperparameter. And then we learn, we do this training, which is the

optimization of parameters inside that from the data, which is computationally expensive, and whose

quality is hard to be guaranteed. So machine learning is great, but it's not necessary if an

existing algorithm is already good for a problem. For instance, if you know what a priori is, and if

you know that a priori works well for finding frequent items that's then we have no reason to

design a new machine learning function for solving the exact problem. So what I want to say is

machine learning is not the answer for every problem. It makes sense only when it is hard

to design a function on our own to solve a problem. So I mean, it's really important for

a data engineer, because many people try to rely on machine learning or deep learning in all cases,

which is not good for us if we have a better algorithm to solve it in a more direct and reliable

way. But let's think about the recommender system. So SBD, I need to think about SBD,

sorry for running out of time. SBD has a very straightforward form of optimising. SBD has

a mathematical property to satisfy and we can agree on a question to find the extreme

parameters from SBD. So SBD can be solved, it doesn't have to be optimised by machine learning

in many cases. We have already a good algorithm, although machine learning can give us a better

way to optimise SBD in a short time, but it's just a matter of efficiency. But if you think

about the UPD competition, unlike SBD, as I said, I mean, I just say it really, but we don't have

any confidence. Any UPD are good as long as we can minimise the centre. So if we are the person,

if we are the engineer, we should be the one who designed this algorithm for finding this UPD and

we should think about very carefully on this algorithm to find UPD. But in terms of machine

learning, the same kind of thing works because in terms of machine learning, we have the goal,

we have the parameters, we have the model. So what we have to do is to update these parameters to

minimise the objective function. So we can at least say that this UPD component is more fitted

with machine learning than traditional data mining. That's the reason why we consider this

as a machine learning algorithm. Okay. So you, good, right? So let's look at UPD

competition as machine learning, which I just said for the previous class. So in traditional

collaborative flow training, like we just learned from the previous class, we manage the rules. We

design the rule to recommend items based on the similarity measure, which we also need to design

between users, right? But in UPD competition, the model is fixed. The how we recommend is fixed

as a dot product. We are not going to change the dot product operation. So what we have to learn is

the vector matrices from the utility matrix and we expect them to be better than this row color than

rows from the utility matrix. Okay. And we don't know exactly how to construct the spectrum

matrices and no spectrum solution exists from the spectrum matrices. So we just learn any UMP to

minimise the training RMS. That's what we do in traditional engineering. So let's think about the

objective function. Our goal, our optimization problem is to find vectors in UMP such that they

are arguments that minimise the objective function today. There are many applications called objective

function volume J here. J is measured between R, U and V and is defined as SSE, like the exact sum

of square over between R and U and V. And the left hand side of this subtract like operation is R.

That side is the ultra entry from the utility matrix and the right hand side is the stop problem of the user

and I will present it. So we just want to find the solution to that problem. So in such an

optimization problem in machine learning we call VMP parameters which we update and the other

non-learnable tricks is not called hyperprime. Like the one biggest hyperprime here is value K

which is number of later vectors which is not learned from our algorithm.

So you have to understand that there is a mismatch in this objective function. So our true goal,

true goal of designing this recommendation algorithm is to minimise SSE for unseen data.

Let's say you are the one who want to solve Netflix challenge and your goal is not

reducing this error for your observed data. Your goal is to reduce this error for unseen

test data to become better in the competition. But the problem is you don't have this on the

same test data, right? So increasing K almost always decreases the value of this objective

function which is better for you since the error decreases with more vectors. But SSE on test data

can be into large rise with larger K because our objective function can only consider training data.

So this mismatch like this unseen generalization to unseen test data is a classic example of overbidding

and because this term is so popular these days and I'm sure that you have heard it before but

I'll explain anyway. So overbidding is kind of relationship between the freedom of

function that we have and the complexity of the rule or the complexity of the data from our

observations. What it means is if we give too much freedom for a model or if we give too many

parameters to the model then this model starts feeding noise with too many free parameters

which is not good because in that case since the model is too feed with the noise in the training

data it does not generalize well to unseen test data. So we should carefully control the model

complexity like the number of clusters and k-nins to avoid noise while feeding the overall shape of

the data or overall patterns inside the data so that it can generalize unseen data. So for the

upper figure so the left here shows under B which is our model is too restricted to learn patterns

from the data the right figure shows an overbidding it creates like too many noise in the training data

which makes it not generalizable but the second the center figure is a good example it has a very

proper learning complexity from learning statistics. So how can we avoid overbidding?

Regularization is a possible way and it's a very common way of solving this overbidding problem.

Okay let's just directly look at this optical function. So you know our the left side here the

left term is our original objective function between R and our EMB. So if we learn EMB then it

matches this R as a then there becomes a mismatch in the objective function. So we introduce more terms

like first you look at this two new terms in our objective function it contains two terms the first

one is the basically this L2 norm of the user representations with a coefficient lambda one

y and the second one is the summation of the L2 norm that like spares L2 norm of the item

representation multiplied with the coefficient lambda two. So these two terms seem arbitrary

like their role is very unsure to understand from the pages but what we want is when we

learn like when we find the proper representations of users and items we want to restrict the space

we want them to be inside some circular shape or some hyperbolic cube so that they do not be

like overbidding the training data. So that is like you can consider these two terms as

regularizing the space that we can search for while we do this multi-planar thing or we can

say there are forces that prevent this representation to be too like specular to

specific to some noise in the training data. So by properly choosing the values of this lambda one

and lambda two which are hyperparameters that are not learned from the training we can control

the balance between our training like our force to minimize the error on the training site while

with our force to regularize this whole learning thing so we can create a trade-off between these

two. So that is the role of our regularization and it allows a rich model where there is sufficient

data it trains the model aggressively. So if you look at this visualization the impact of regularization

is we have a model and let's say this is a representation of this user and let's say we

have two vectors the one vector is what is it one vector is a series and the other vector is

exempt like here or male so if you have two vectors and if this guy if this user has once

a long movement from the utility matrix then we can say there are more forces that guide this

model for the first term. Okay let's say if you think about the user x or specific user x this is

a force that makes the representation of the user more richer in space. So if this user has

watched a lot of movies then this user will be going outside making signals stronger making

his vector stronger in the space but if this user hasn't watched many movies so then to avoid

beating to noise this representation should be shrink to center because in that case the

the power of making it shrink from the regularization term will be stronger than the

positive force so that creates a balance between these two forces like going outside and going

inside. Okay and lastly we think about this visualization there so because our goal of

doing whole thing is about generalizing to unseen data test data training data is not sufficient so

we introduce the validation data which is separate from the training data which is in perm. So when

you do versus the netx helix or neuron you should separate like even training data into two one

training data and one validation data and you need to consider this validation data as unseen data so

you train your model with only the red version and it is up to you how to separate this green

person like it determines the whole performance and it is important for you but we separate this

location data and we train our model on the red version and we validate our model from the green

version so if our model is only very good with the red person while it's bad with the green person

that then means the model fails to generalize something there so in fact what is more important

from this figure is the performance on the green person should be maximized as a result of training

on the red person that is how we measure the amount of generalization for our our model even

without looking at the test version like a blue one so the actual matrix that you will be given

in the netflix companies will look like this one will not separate this training and validation for

you you will have this big portion except for the test portion and then you need to think about how

to separate this data into both training and validation for instance if you get if you create

more data for that for validation then you'll be better for the validation purpose but you will

have less data for the training if you take too many too many samples for training data compared

to the validation data then your model will have more data to be trained but validation purpose will

be weak that is like a trade-off you can choose yourself so like these slides like the first slide

like the starting from here objective function mismatch the overfeeding regularization validation

data is all about the goal because our role is again not about reducing objective bump that is

just a function used for the training model but our truth is not that so this whole slide

are about telling you that why there is a mismatch and how we are going to deal with it

so any questions yeah oh okay you can do it first well i i think the regularization

makes sense only if we normalize our object to make its R because it pushes toward zero

okay in this case it means that the prediction is biased for zero score so to make it sense i think

R should be normalized so it has zero mean R should be a zero mean yeah uh well is it

um i'm not sure about that so what would be the reason why you think like that

so the regularization pushes toward zero yeah like all representations zero yes

it means that the prediction is biased for zero uh i see i mean it's not about the

re-releasing bond yeah so okay so i i get the point so what he says is this like this

re-releasing is a force that makes the representation to be close to the center but if

for instance a user and item representations are let's say are closer to zero that means their

product will be closer to zero as well which means a negative prediction but zero is an

actually negative prediction not the neutral prediction so what it says is probably we first

have to normalize our returning matrix to have the zero mean so that zero prediction can behave

like a neutral prediction rather than the negative prediction i think that makes sense but in reality

in many cases i think that doesn't make a big difference in in threefold perspective because

because every user and item would have at least a few like ratings from the utility matrix and

i think this is more so it is more practical to integrate this force not as making the

representation to zero but more likely it makes the representation space like the search space

to be a narrow space so that the model cannot behave on its own so i don't from my personal

experience experience i don't think that will make a crucial difference for the great

themselves but generally i agree with him it would be better to normalize the utility matrix

in this regularization terms to make them more make more sense okay for occasions

we can do it so the question is can we create multiple process splits or cleaning and building

data for making it work better of course we can so that concept is called in many cases m for

possible addition so if you take the machine learning courses then in fact you will learn

many different techniques to make this work better so in our program i'll not talk about

these chemical tactics for making this training better but for instance one of them is and for

the proposition which is for instance let's split our training data into five by 20 percentage then

we use the four portions of them the same data and one person of that is the relation data and

you swap that validation portion for five times right it makes sense right for instance we create

five portions like one two three four and five and we do this pipeline and we compute the

validation error while using the first portion as the data the second one third one and the fifth

one and we compute the average of the errors and the average of this five drivers this is like

to utilize our training data most efficiently by treating its portion as those Asian data at its

time so this is called the n-fold validation this is useful the only problem is it takes five

times longer than a single split which is it creates a balance between the training accuracy

and speed i mean i mean it's not important but we need to go to the extreme for this case and you

have one lead out one lead out validation what it means is let's say we have a thousand

samples here thousand training samples then we do this n-fold cross validation for every sample

we consider 999 999 samples as training because they're the only one at validation and we do this

which is better than this one the body takes a thousand times longer today okay so everything

is about a balance if we have limited time then we need to choose one trial like one number of

trials that we want to do and how to split the data into training validation and then it's all

related about technical like details of doing this machine learning on your own and if you become a

machine learning engineer then you will learn this different techniques because we didn't have

in practice we have limited resources at that time okay great so now can we measure the test

performance and those solutions or so yeah thank you for so we basically you i guess you understand

that we are not able to approximate the test data but we can question for instance for this

i for cross validation we have a validation error this portion this portion this version this

version so for example this error for the first trial of the n-fold validation cross validation

we can consider the error in for this person would be an approximate for the test error because it is

like an unseen data in terms of this four splits so if we compute the average of the relation

manner for these five balls then we can say their average is approximating the unseen test error so

if we train a model that minimizes despite what average of these five balls we can say our model

should be generalizable well to test data because that's what this one is if you do the one live

out cross validation everything is the same if we just have to compute the average of the

1000 different trials to consider them as a test error

okay great so then the remaining thing we talk about the optimization so here comes this magic

i mean you remember that we have gone through a complicated series of benefit optimization for

vca and sbd but in terms of machine learning we're not going to we just rely on the magic of radiant

which is a super super general and time are great than information it's not the only

optimization or what is that you must be learning but definitely was the most popular one so radiant

descent is a simple mathematical technique to find parameters that minimize this object function

what we do is super simple we have a great like the objective function this is a curve assuming

that our counter is only one so the x axis is the parameter y axis is an objective value and this is

a curve determined by our j function so let's say we have our current under here so for doing

this gradient descent we initialize our parameters randomly so let's say this is our initialization

point without knowing then whether this point is good or not we just initializing parameters

we just compute the loss value here then what we do is we compute the derivative of the objective

function and that we have is brilliant like the derivative of the function and we know the

direction because in this point we know that going left will minimize this area going right will

increase in there so we go so we start from here we compute this gradient or a derivative and we

make a step in the reverse direction of the grid from theta one probably to theta one from theta zero

probability the one and we do the same we come to the derivative here and we know that the left

direction would decrease the error function and we go to the left left left left until

j is sufficiently small so let's say we're here then so as we go left and left and left the gradient

like the amount of the gradient will be decreased because the that's what it does so when we reach

that point here then the gradient will be almost closer to zero and we know that here is the

optimal point for minimizing this element so that's what we do so we only care about this local

property local gradient and our own friend condition and it just changes our parameters by

a little in a direction it decreases yeah but if we go too much like from here let's say our

step size is two months of view for instance here although there is a right then our result

will be worse than here right so we just have to carefully adjust the step size so that you can

move a little by little until they're not this increase so this is all for a gradient distance

so almost for almost all machine learning algorithms for them to be trained we just have the only

requirement which is the gradient like objective function should be differential so as long as the

gradient curve the objective function is differentiable we can apply this gradient descent for

optimization so let's think about this ubt composition how we apply gradient descent for it

so how we use gradient descent for finding u star like restart like all the parameters for

this described mostly step one we utilize gmv in any way they want but here let's assume we

are going to initialize them using sdb treating the blank as zero because we know that sdb gives us a

very good solution so we expect them to be better than the random initialization but it's a minor

video we can initialize gmv randomly if we want then we just copy gmv to minimize this

updated function j by computing the derivative of j with respect to u and mean respectively

okay and if we update u in that way where this ai is an attacker parameter which is called step

size or a burning rate if you repeatedly compute this two lines of clue then we'll reach a state

which shows a small enough value for this objective function okay

so we're gonna do this update step but uh one one problem difficulty is we have to compute the

derivative of the function with respect to each major which seems to be a little hard for us to

do right so what we do is we want to perform the update step one each entry independently instead

of computing this complicated matrix gradients so for every entry row x column c of matrix u like

u xc we compute a simpler derivative of the bigger function for each entry which is more

rule and then we update its entry in the same way as the previous line and i will speak how we

derive this one which is very straightforward from r u v respect to the nth row and c column

of the u matrix okay this is a very simple a first order and it's not about problem versus

first order derivative we can do it yourself and we have also a regularization term here

so in fact i guess this equation of the gradient of this thing gives us a very good intuition on

how this update function or how this gradient design actually works if you look at this gradient

we will move the entry u xc in a way that it in a little correction of the very little right so

what this first one means is based on the error between the x of element and our approximation

it updates this element in a way that it decreases the value right the second term is from

and there is u xc which is if there is no

it will shrink the refinement of the if you restrict this element to zero because of this term

right so we also know that from this equation how these two regularization and the original

term play each other like creating a propane but there is just a detail a bigger picture is we

just update all elements in a way of minimizing this object function that's what we do very simple

but the problem is gradient descent is slow why is slow because sorry to going back if you go here

let's say our matrix r can be huge our original matrix can be consisting of billions of users

but if you look at this we can update the primary matrices one time by computing the

derivative of the updated function with respect to the whole matrix that takes a lot because we need

to do these steps a lot for doing this gradient descent which is not good for us so in practice

no people almost no people no person uses this full gradient some people use stochastic gradient

descent or scv so what it does is based on this assumption we know that the gradient but the

derivative of the arguably like of the objective function is decomposable into the sum of these

element wise gradients with respect to every element in the non-plane entry we know that they

are easily equivalence between these two then we change our gradient a little bit instead of

computing all derivatives and doing this step once we change our gradient so that we make a

step for every element instead so if you look at this three thing there is a difference here

if you look at the gd the gradient descent we do the step after computing the sum of all the

gradients right but in that cd we do the step for every element and we do the enumeration for every

so for instance if you have a thousand training entries as this g computes a thousand dimension

gradient and doing a big one but for just as we update the calendar a thousand times for every

length which is much faster and g but you know they are not in people actually is not the same as gd

because gd is more like exact more than you can expect from the gradient descent but actually is

kind of a coarse approximation of gd which can make the gd much faster so if you compare this

sd and g so that's the gradient descent and just normal gradient descent we can consider them in

this way so this gradient descent improves the value of this objective function of every step

so it's more stable way but this actually improves the value but in a noise way because every update

step of sd is good for minimizing the value with respect to a single element okay so if you look at

this sd firm so each each step is good for this element rx file but the optimization of this one

step can be bad for the other entries that are not considered in the single mapping so every step of

sd is not guaranteed to minimize this objective function for the whole matrices that is the reason

why sd is called a noisy way of optimization so if you run this sd yourself you will look at the

figure like we left you present as you proceed the updates of the primary increases then the red one

the full gradient descent is first data but you will get a blue one it goes up goes down very

sharply because for every step we consider only a single element and that can change the the whole

objective function in an unexpected way okay but it's faster so how we use sd to find this

optimal primary and restart or re-replacement is described in this way first we utilize it and we

using sd or any visualization method everyone consists of the minor detail treating the blanket

zero then we iterate over the ratings until so here we have a new for loop for every entries in

the three set and we compute the error specific to this entry and we compute this two term of a

representation of this user x the presentation of this item i which are incorporated in this

editor okay we do this for every element until and probably we will have another word here right

because we here here we need another loop that runs this whole process until the error function

is needed okay so this is why the dual for loop so we just keep doing this until convergence which

makes sense but as a for instance computer scientists we don't like that sd very much

because in terms of sd we have no guarantee of convergence it actually is really bad in some

cases that it can completely diverge i mean it will not diverge but you can at least

not converge because you can iterate between a certain type of conditions so in many cases

people don't use sd in fact people use that duty not for individual samples but for mini benches

of several samples so if you compare these three greater descent performs one step using and all

step true as like a super stochastic revenue set uses and set you know in only one set so this

batch sd computes a creation of this sample a random example and do this and divided by these

steps which is a which makes a very good between gd and 3d so when people in the evolutionary

community say that they use sd in 99 percent they refer to this batch sd they create that

then you will know that this b is another type of hardware to choose if b is small the

optimization gets faster but it's no easier if b gets large the optimization gets slower but it's

more awkward okay so any questions any questions so i mean i try to assume that you are not experts

on machine learning and i treat i try to explain the very deep insights on how we build a concept

of machine learning for every function but if you know what machine learning is in that in fact the

second part the what i just we just learned is pretty straightforward we had progress umv we

have an objective function and we update this umv by minimizing this optimization function with

a regularization term that's what all we need okay so later if you look at this deep learning

you will see that in actual deep learning this gradient curve is not this linear beautiful

curve in many cases this curve is because a neural network is a non-linear function of the input

in fact this great like this objective function does much more complicated in many cases so

then finally an optimal point using gradient descent has many challenges in practice but we'll

talk about it later this ubt composition is in fact a linear function so gradient descent gives

us a very stable optimization point for the optimization point of the objective function okay

and another thing is gradient descent relies on the first order approximation of the curve

if we look at the second order term a third order term then we can optimize this there so if

you take a class for instance the optimization or more complicated like the linear scheduling of

these things then you will learn a more complicated and awkward ways of optimization like the method

and all the other things but the gradient descent is the fastest and more like the most simplest

way to do it because it just looks at the first order approximation of the curve okay

okay so what i really want to say is machine learning is a magic that comes from a differentiable

model differentiable objective function and gradient descent if we combine these three then

we can do almost all about it without worrying about what specific algorithm that we design

that's the beauty of bush learning so any questions no great then let's look at some variants they're

not complicated variants but they are mostly to show that why this machine learning thing is

flexible okay so let's think about it you can try to do to use your own netlix science but

in fact it's not the globally optimal there can be better models than you for instance we can think

about this global effects of users and movies so in our previous competition we modeled the

ready xr sub x and i as about interaction between user x and item in fact that product between that

these user and item representations but there can be some biases there can be some global events

that are not accurately modeled by this interaction between x and y for instance some people are very

critical in reviewing things but some people are very generous but and some movies are very popular

very high quality but some movies are really bad on that and such global biases of users and movies

are in fact not operating a model in their interactions there are i believe there should

be separated from this interaction right so let's change the model we want to change our model into

this work so this new model is not only about your interaction this model contains three different

first is a new which is the always mean rating and by having this new here it works as normalizing

the whole utility because it is almost the same as like the substrate subtracting this mean from

this area right and there's a new and there's a bx and bi which are biases for user x and the

i is rapidly and bx and bi are also parameters that can be learned from our so now we have three

i for prompt ux sorry u b and b for users and b for line we include more primaries here

expecting that these biases will make our model fair so let's look at an example if our mean rating

of training data is 3.7 then here is the mean it doesn't have to be learnable because it just can't

compute it from there and if you maybe i am a very critical reviewer then probably the bias

can be learned from me but if our word is favored by many people that we wouldn't have a positive

bias then what really what this interaction really has to do is to model the interaction between me

like the user and the item in a more accurate way like it just estimates whether the interaction

becomes positive or negative because other biases or global effects are not indifferent okay so

what we have as a result of introducing more parameters doesn't change the model fundamentally

because it doesn't increase it doesn't induce the non-linear to the model and it doesn't make the

model your network or so it just changes the form relation by introducing a few more terms which is

a very little overhead but by having this new term our model can be more successful because

because if this model satisfy your assumptions or the properties on data more close more problem

and does it change the optimization process not at all what we need to change is the only this

like how we compute this approximate rating for our exile we just have to change this term and we

can still add regularizers you can read and probably for the user and if we want to regularize

vehicle and it is also up to us whether to include the user and the item the regularizer or not it's

up to us for instance if i were you i'm not gonna include the user and the item into regularizer

because i believe b doesn't have to be regularized because b is most likely a global like the

biases of user and items and i think there is not much noise to be more big by me but it's just a

design space you can consider you can design your model yourself okay so i mean it is up to you

whether you believe this new model extends or not compared to the previous model some of you might

agree but some of you might not agree but it's totally okay because the model is not fixed so

here comes the beauty of machine learning any idea for modifying the three components is okay to try

which are basically a set of learners an objective function and the regular you can change the states

without changing the fundamental idea of the one and you just have to try different variants until

you achieve the best validation performance not the training performance because sgd will take care of

finding this optimal progress we may live in the power of gradient based optimization as long as

our models and our objective functions are differentiable then it will make care of the

many things so for instance if you go back i mean they're not all we can think about for instance

hey that part of it is too simple there probably there should be a different way to model the

interaction between this and we are let's say let's not use the dot product here let's say addition

it makes sense why you can't even do a list for instance like i say

let me turn this one thing okay so this is not a product of ux we are transverse okay

it's good but what if we introduce for instance the x the matrix m we got here

and what if we model this m as a learner plot that is based on the assumption that this dot product

uh considers only the transitions between distinct length and vectors between this user and item

but if we have a new matrix and learnable inside the dot model then this m can be a

permutation matrix which can map different elements from user and different items from item

different elements from item so it will give a more freedom of learning to the model but does

it make sense i'm not sure i just came up with that idea and that's up to you whether to try

then or not so anything is okay anything okay but you just have to remember the trade-off if

he introduced more parameters and if you make them all more complicated then it has a higher

risk of overfeeding and lower time of computation computation okay okay remaining thing hyper

parameters we still have some hyper parameters like the regularizer parameters and even the size

of the latent vectors which is not learnable so a common practice is we pick the one with the best

validation performance so the fundamental reason why we should introduce the validation data one

of the reasons is because we have some hyper parameters to tune which are not learnable from

the data so there are many basic ways and in fact they are not greatly defining hyperbrands the first

one is the research we just compute we just create a grid of values and we pick one we run the model

we see the performance and we take the best so we'll be the best at these requirements or we can

do random search we can create a grid sorry you can create a space of values and we try for each

random selected combination until the performance is satisfactory so is it satisfactory no we it's

not satisfactory but in fact we have no i mean this hyper parameter search is also a research

field in machine learning there are many advanced algorithms for doing this automatic hyper parameter

search but obviously there are other scope so a basic way with either great search for random

but still there needs some space where engineers can play for instance when we design this research

let's think about the regularizer trunk we know that every regularizer should be

non-negative obviously because if this regularizer is negative then it doesn't do regularize anymore

then our only condition is if we believe that every regularization coefficient should be

positive then what space should be moved for this regularizer so for such a positive parameter a

common way to create is a goal scale because it approaches the value to zero but it doesn't go to

zero so let's say we have run our model five times for this five different values and our model's

performance was almost like almost five weeks and let's say this is a 0.01 and this one is 0.1

and so then in this case so in fact our actual samples would be much

fewer because we can run our model or only for a few times then at least we know that okay this

region makes sense right then after that we create another great little hyper parameter like 0.01,

0.1 then you know the whole scale problem I'll try

to explain.

These three values and we do it okay with these three new values and they will build in the

missing entries okay so machine learning is in many cases engineering that we had no beautiful

algorithm to do this one we just had to think keep thinking about how can we optimize our model how

can we optimize our hyper parameter and all these different design choices there are many design

choices inside this machine learning and as a machine learning engineer we just had to think

about that constantly. Okay any question? Yeah.

So you mean the protest new model?

Oh I like that yeah.

Why do we leave new as just a simple average file with using D as parameter

measure them there's also average data? Great it's so great it's also a design choice for us

so okay let's think about it. First of all we can learn this mu, b, u,

b everything as a large parameter okay our first choice is to learn every parameter

which is good our second choice would be okay u mu is just a scalar it's a single value and we

believe that if you train our model very carefully with this all level parameters then we can expect

that this mu will probably converge to this global average it's not that you have a theoretical

guarantee for that but it's more like an expectation that if you train our model with all these three

parameters then what the role of the whole data is that on mu is to leveraging or crossing to the

program and some people so we can if you go deeper into the curve of the function the curve that

equates that we can possibly say that we will approach the global average because that is a

passive way to minimize the loss function in terms of the place between these parameters so but I

will not give you this theoretical guarantee for that and I'm not sure how to type the theoretical

guarantee set so that's just an expectation but if we believe that mu will approach the global

average anyway then by fixing this mu the global average we can reduce the computation like we can

reduce the instability instability of training process because if we fix the mu to the global

average then the search space for the whole model is greatly decreased because the predictor

parameters are no longer affected by the scale because mu is fixed then let's go to the second

third tree first if we go further then we can also think that this biases will be also fitted to

the average rating of its user and its item if we believe that these viruses will converge into

these directions then we can also fix this vx and vi from their rates from the training data then

it will also greatly reduce the space search space of the training compared to not fixed purpose

but I guess mu is true but for me I'm not completely sure how this model will determine

the play between b and unb and the regulation term if we control the regulation strength so

from there actually there is a little uncertainty that I want to fix to the strong button so there

can be one justification on why I fix mu but I do not fix b but that is just a design mistake

it's just up to your word so everything so which parameter should be updated which

parameters should be fixed is also a trade-off between the complexity or stability and speed

or parameters so and in fact from here we have almost no guarantee on how it actually works

in fact at least for ubd completion because as I said the model is linear we can derive so many

great theoretical properties of the model but if you change the model into a neural network then

we almost have nothing to expect from

yeah workations workations okay great so uh well since we will have uh one class as a review

for the midterm and since we have some more slides finished then I think it is a good

uh timing to finish this today's class so the remaining the left one the fourth one will be

covered uh this Thursday along with a very quick review of the things that we learned for the first

half then that'll be all for the midterm and for the next Tuesday we have a class but the class is

for the next topic for the final okay and we have an exam on Thursday okay and then let me just

briefly say about the summary slide although I we didn't cover the last one so we took we just

learned it is ubd composition because it's not a complicated operator at all which is the first

machine learning operation that we learned on and this ubd completion is better than traditional

cf in many ways in terms of accuracy and scalability and people so usually explain the

mechanism a lot for building their computers and then we also learned some variants to show that

why this machine learning things are generalizable and flexible

okay so that's all for today and see you this Thursday

