Good morning everyone. Let's begin the basic lesson.

So we have finished one topic before. So we covered two overall. We first covered, we

first learned about distributed computing, especially MapReduce and Spark. And then we

learned one problem, which is called, what was it, like the finding, like the frequent

item sets. And we move on to another topic, which is related to hashing. As I said, briefly,

like last time, hashing is one of the most important techniques in computer science.

So it would be, I guess it would be interesting to study what hashing, like how hashing works

and what types of advanced hashing functions can there be for solving data mining problems.

So the name of this topic is finding similar items, because we're going to use a new good

hash function for finding similar items from a lot, like a super huge corpus of documents

or any items. Announcement, so homework one, like assignment one will be posted today.

The deadline is in three weeks, and it will contain probably a few programming assignments

and probably a few like the handwritten assignments. So it will be enough time for you to do it,

but the amount of work is not that small. So I encourage you to start earlier if you

want to make your like the report completely. And if you have any questions, like regarding

the specifications or what you should submit as a result of homework, you please ask any

to me or on ETL. So I'm not sure I announced it earlier or not. We have one TA for every

class like at the back of this classroom is there. So if you have any questions regarding

the homework, because homeworks will be taken care of by this TA. So I don't know the specifics

of the homeworks, but I can like let them know your question, but it'd be better for

you if you directly ask the TA's. One at the bottom, like at the back of the classroom,

or you can ask a question on ETL. So I'm not sure whether we created a board of Q&A on ETL,

but we will do it. And you are free to ask any questions. Just please like read the questions

before you ask something. But we tried our best to clarify every specification of the

homework. So it would be generally okay for you to understand the comments. And recap,

recap. So I guess you remember what we just said there. We our goal was to find frequent

item sets from a large set of baskets, in some ways contains a multiple item. And the

main algorithm is called HRE. And it is basically a disk based algorithm, which causes one disk

has more every size of the frequent item sets. And then we learned its variations and its

improvements for if you want like multi stage algorithm, like multi stage algorithm,

dual algorithm, and some random sampling for a continuous algorithm like that. Each of

these algorithm was not that complicated, but they were based on different motivations

and different goals. So I guess it would be good to understand why people have designed

this different algorithm with different purposes and to understand how they actually work.

Well, I think I don't have to explain this again. But for instance, if you think about

the PCY algorithm, we create a hash table, right? We want to use this tile memory in

a test block, which is the good motivation, and then we compress it into a bitmap and

type it into while we really copy and paste it. I guess you remember the details.

So any questions regarding the course, like the homework or the previous lectures? Good.

I mean, I guess the lecture is so far so good. It was not that hard so far, I guess. It can

be harder later, but apparently I think it's good. So let me first define the problem or

introduce the problem. So the main problem is finding similar as its name implies our

goal is to find and say we are working on the web. We know that there are a lot of web

pages in the web. And let's say we want to look for pages that have near duplicated content.

For instance, here, there are new articles, but they are mostly about the same thing.

I mean, like the earthquake of magnitude 6.8. But they will not be the same. Their contents

can be a little different because they are written by different reports. But most of

the time, they say about the same thing. So let's say we want to find such duplicate

pairs from the large set of articles to use them. But the challenge is, I guess you understand

the complexity thing. So the challenge is to compare all possible pairs of articles

with higher quadratic complexity in terms of the number of documents, which is basically

infallible if the number of documents is large in the web. So our main question is, we want

to compare these documents based on their similarities, but we want to avoid this quadratic

complexity, which seems really hard because I mean, it seems that we need to check all

pairs to do something. But the question is, isn't it even possible to reduce the complexity?

So that would be the main question that we're going to study today.

So before we describe how we do it, let's think about the problems. Because the problems

should be interesting enough to study them. So the first complication may be finding similar

documents. So exactly as I introduced in the previous slide, we want to find textually

similar documents in a large group. In terms of character level similarity, it's a similar

So that's important. Here, we do not think about the meaning similarity between documents.

Because let's say several documents have almost the same meaning even though their representations

are different. But our topic is not about finding semantic meanings of documents. It's

mostly about finding character level similarities or sentence level similarities, which is more

related to plagiarism. So the point is, many documents overlap significantly but are not

identical. So let's say if I want to detect plagiarism from your submitted homeworks,

then I don't expect you to be identical to someone else's submission because we are not

that I mean, studio, right? So you're going to change the homework a little bit. So probably

I will try to find the similar documents by the overlap, at least by 50%, like 30% as

a number collection. Or there can be many meter sites, which are just different sites

stating basically the same thing of the other sites. So we can probably pick those mirror sites

or similar articles as introduced in the previous slide. So if you think about it, there can be many

potential applications of this topic, this problem, finding similar documents.

Another application is, so later we're going to introduce recommender system, which is another

present day topic in data mining. But one of the most important algorithms for recommender system,

like recommendation itself, is called celebrity pool. So we're going to learn later, so you don't

have to worry about it. And let's say we want to recommend items like by others with similar

takes. What does it mean? It means, let's say I want to recommend a movie to like, let's say

to some of you, then one way to do it is, so I have the whole system, right? And I know

which person interacts with which movie, like which person watches which movie. Then for instance,

if I want to recommend movies to like, let's say student A, then I can find other students

who have similar tastes with this student A based on the similarity. Then here the document is the

watch history of this person. And I think it makes sense. Based on the watch histories, I want to find

the similar users for a target user. And then we can recommend new movies based on the similar

users, right? So although the actual implementation of this recommendation model is a little bit

different from what I just described, but I just think the motivation is correct. For instance,

in Amazon, we can say that to customary all similar if they have similar purchase item. Or in Netflix,

we can say customaries watch and rate movies. But we can say these two people, two persons,

are similar if their watch histories or rating histories are similar. But the problem is in these

two systems, Netflix, Amazon, they have like even like a billions of probably users. I guess it's

not billions, but almost like more than one billion users, which is a lot of them, right?

So let's think about the solution now. So I guess you now understand why we solve this problem,

which seems to be important. So before we describe the actual thing, like actual algorithm,

let's think about the motivation or the basic idea of what we do. So we know how hash functions

work. Typical hash functions are basically a random uniform. And we say a hash function is good if it

is more like a random uniform. So let's ask your hash function and you want it to be two documents.

Then we can say for an ideal hash function, H of B1 and H1 of B2 should be independent of their

actual similarity. That is like the definition of a good hash function. But what if we have a hash

function that has the locality sensitive property? That is like a big question. So let's say the

probability that the hash value of B1 and the hash value of B2 to be the same is large if B1 and B2

are similar. So that means we are the unaligned hash function, but we expect the probability that

the hash values are the same for a pair of documents is proportional to their actual content

similarity. So that is the meaning of the locality sensitive hashing. So this hash function, locality

sensitive hash function is no longer a uniform. It is more like a proxy of the document similarity

or the item similarity. So if we have such a hash function, then we can use this hash function to

find similar documents and eventually we can reduce the complexity for comparing documents into

almost linear. So I will describe the details later, but this is like the whole idea of our thing.

Okay, so here comes the word locality sensitive hashing, L, S, which is a basic idea to find

pairs of similar items and large them without the contract programming for us. So as I said,

so we understand this hash function has the locality sensitive property. Then if we have

such a good function, we can follow this way. We throw items into buckets using several different

locality sensitive hash functions. Then since we expect that a similar document will have a

higher probability to be put into the same bucket, we can say we do that for several different hash

functions and then we examine only the item pairs that share the bucket for at least one item. So

for a single hash function, it may not be guaranteed that the two similar documents are

put into the same bucket. But if we create multiple independent locality sensitive hash functions

and if we examine the item pairs that share the bucket for at least one time, then you can say

it is probably an accurate approximation of the old pair comparison. So as I said, I will

describe the details later. To the upside of this approach, only a small fraction of pairs are

examined, which is great for us because we no longer have to compare the items that are not put

into a single bucket. That's the same bucket. But the downside is there will be false names.

Some pairs will not get configured. And similar to our previous class, previous lecture, it is really

hard for us to remove false names from almost all assembly-based or almost all approximation of

right-handers, which is fundamentally different from eliminating false positives. You should

always understand the differences between these. So this is our whole overview, our whole topic.

So you really need to understand this one. But it will be more clear if I explain more details.

So from now on, I will describe how our framework will work based on locality sensitive padding.

This is the big feature. Our whole framework will consist of three main stages, where we are going

to cover only the first two today, and the last one next time. So shippling, mean hashing, and

locality sensitive hashing. It doesn't mean anything to just read it to you, but I'll

anyway read it. So the shippling is a process to create a characteristic matrix from a set of

documents where the characteristic matrix summarizes this whole document. And then in the mean hashing

set, we create a signature matrix, although I didn't explain about that, but still we create

a signature matrix that reduces the size of the characteristic matrix. And from the signature

matrix, we expect it to effectively approximate the distances between them. So what we want to do

until this part, like mean hashing is, we create a large matrix that allows us to approximate the

distances between them. And then if we are able to compute the distances very fast, then we're

going to apply the locality sensitive hashing function later. So this is the illustration.

Shippling, mean hashing, and locality sensitive hashing. So I will come back to this slide

after I explain everything, like at the end of today's talk.

So I'll just explain the problem, and then we're going to talk about shippling and mean hashing,

like the first two steps of our whole framework. And then I'll talk about a little bit

detailed information on mean hashing. Questions?

Good. Okay. So let's talk about the shingling. So what is shingling? You can understand shingling

as a compact representation of documents. So our whole goal is to compare all the documents,

and then we want to find a pair of similar documents. But the document itself is a large,

I mean, a single document itself is a long, large data, so we don't want to compare it with

large data. So we don't want to deal with every original document in our whole algorithm. So we're

going to learn, we're going to map each document into some kind of pre-determined vector, some kind

of that. So the shingle is one process for that. So, page shingles. What is a shingle? A shingle is

basically a length-page string. So for instance, if our document is ACBADE, like a very simple

document consisting of seven alphabets, then it pays to, and the set of two shingles are AB, BCC,

BADE. So it is super simple way to represent the document at the step of working. So here, why do

we care about the shingles? Because shingles are used for identifying less fully similar documents,

not meaningful similar documents, but at least in terms of the characters. And there are several

options for handling white space. For instance, we can replace any sequence of white spaces with

a single blank. So it would be clear if you look at the example. If you're using that document,

and then it pays nine, and if we replace the sequence of white spaces into a single blank,

then this is a set of nine shingles that represent this document. So in fact, our whole LSH thing,

our whole framework does not rely on this specific way of shingling the document. But

you can consider this as one possible way to represent the document as the set of words.

So at least in this way, we have more like a shingle set that can be applied to

universally to all documents in our data set. So if we apply these page shingles for a hundred

documents in our whole data set, then we can create a binary vector, which has the same length

across all documents that represents the contents of the document in this way. So by doing this step,

we now transfer a document, a series of words into a set of words. So now based on that,

since we represent the document in this way, we have to define similarity in terms of sets.

So for simplicity, we'll define the similarity as a Jotpart similarity between k shingle sets of

documents. So this Jotpart similarity is quite popular and super easy to understand. It's a

simple similarity measure of sets based on relative size of intersection. So the Jotpart

similarity between these two sets is three over eight, because they have three elements as an

intersection and they have eight elements overall. So super like three or four, right? So

we can say if we represent the documents as a set of shingles, if their Jotpart similarity is high,

we can say, we say that they are similar. And I guess there is no confusion in that process.

Although someone can say, hey, a shingle is too like a straightforward way to represent documents.

We need a better way to send documents and better way to define a similarity function,

which makes sense. But at least today, we're going to assume a simple way of representing

documents in a k shingle and Jotpart similarity. And if the Jotpart similarity is one,

that means the two sets are identical. That means the two documents are identical.

So first we'll do, so today's a little bit about implementation. We follow the whole

framework one by one. So after we create shingles, which are a complex way to represent documents,

but still shingles are big. Because every single, let's say we have a k equals nine,

every single consists of nine characters, which takes nine months. But we don't want that. So we

want to hash the shingles to four binding integers, which are all lookings. The way we do it is because

if you create nine shingles in this way, then we will have a set of whole nine shingles for

reverse or whole documents in our whole dataset. But we know that among all possible sequences of

nine characters, only a very few subset of them will actually appear in our dataset. Because

English words are a very compact space compared to overall the whole possible alphabet space.

So we want to map these nine shingles into fewer bytes as a plugin for a very automatic.

So let's say if we design a hash function, so here this hash function is not the locally

sensitive hash function. This is just a hash function. So you create a hash function,

and we transform nine shingles like string into a four byte integer. Then we can say

that because the number of potential nine shingles would be good, we can say almost all four bytes

are used effectively in our four byte space, and we can reduce the space by two times just by doing this.

Make sense? I guess it's a little bit more complicated to say instead of four

nine there. I really want to say there's each of these nine. Because nine shingles are basically

sequences of nine characters, and we know that most of those possible sequences are not actually

there. So that's the reason why we hash them. If this assumption is violated, then there's no way,

like the reason why we do this, because there will be a lot of collisions. In this stage,

we don't want collisions. We want to minimize collisions. So we probably should

think carefully about the size of the output of the integers, which is four bytes now.

So after we do this thing, we create k shingles, we create tokens, then we have this single

characteristic matrix that represents our whole data set. Here, if your row is a shingle,

and we have a row index as a group. So here we do not assume a hash function, we just assume an

increase number around zero. And each column here is a document. S1, S2, and S3 are different

documents represented as sets. So this document S1 contains this shingle and this shingle. This

document contains this shingle alone. So at this point, every document is now a set, which is

basically a binary vector. So by doing this, we've transformed the problem into comparing

documents into comparing binary vectors or comparing binary sets. So here, in this sense,

since we have a data structure that looks like this way, we can compute the Doppler

singularity as the column singularity. So if we compare this, for instance,

S1 and S3, just by looking at these two columns, we know that the Doppler singularity is one over

three. Because they're linear, they have three ones, but their intersection, they have one one.

So we don't really have to look at the documents anymore. We just need this table to do something.

Okay, so what's out of here? It is not the actual way we store data, because this table would be

greatly sparse. All the elements will be zero, because we create the set of all the universal

shingles across all the documents in our data set. So we do store a dense table in this way.

If you think about the term, we can say we will probably use the, what was the name, the tripled

method, which is a basic way to store a sparse data set. And in fact, if you learn more about

large data mining, you will know that there will be, there are many different ways to represent

large data based on their using their sparsity. So although I show you this as kind of a

dense table, in fact, we use a different way to store it actually in our memory.

Okay, any questions?

Yeah, yeah, I mean, it would be one minor minor implementation detail, but we can absolutely do it.

Or one thing is, we can even consider an element of a shingle as a word. So here,

each element is an alphabet, right? So the nine shingles mean a sequence of nine characters. But

we can just safely think about a shingle of words. So for instance, if a page two, page nine,

nine shingle, then you can probably think about a sequence of nine words or representing words.

So the base idea is, here idea is, we want to represent the document as a set of something

that is shared across all the documents. So it can be like our choice to whether what case we

should use and how we slide this item, slide this thing, and how we treat the white faces,

like all these things are minor things that we can control. Thank you. Yeah, great question. Word to ask?

Great. Okay, let's move on. I mean, shingling itself is not that much difficult to understand, right?

So let's go to mean hashing, which is like the main body of thing.

The problem is, it's good that we represent these documents as a characteristic matrix. So just by

doing that, we can say we can reduce a lot of memory for the stories. But the problem is,

characteristic matrix is still too large, probably because we have too many shingles to represent these documents.

So our goal is, we want to replace each step or replace this document as a small vector,

which we call signature. So our goal in this step is to transport our characteristic matrix

into a signature matrix, which is much more dense and compact representation compared to the

characteristic matrix. So here, our goal, our expectation for creating the signature is,

the signature matrix should be containing the information of document similarity,

because if we lose such similarity information, then there's no reason why we create this signature

matrix, right? So we expect that by comparing the signatures of two steps, we should be able to

estimate the top part similarly. And by mean hashing, we can actually do it. And by the larger the signatures,

the more accurate the estimate. So by using the mean hashing, we can control the trade-off between

accuracy and efficiency. If we apply a larger signature, then it will be more accurate, but we can

do the vice versa. So, is an example here. So we see that the signature matrix is a large vector,

so is an example here. So we have two documents, for instance, and this document will be based

basically to represent the set of symbols, and we will present the symbols as a simple signature

vector. So by comparing the signature vectors, we have a more effective idea on how similar they are.

So mean hashing is a technique to do it. Mean hashing is a technique to create signatures from

the characteristic matrix. So the idea is, I will show you the example, we apply several random

permutations of the row. For each permutation, the mean hash value of each step is defined as the index

of the first row that I had one. The result is a signature matrix where the columns are sets and the

rows are mean hash values, and is smaller than the characteristic view. So let me just directly go

into the example, which will be much easier for you to understand. So here, the purple, like the,

okay, so this info matrix is the characteristic matrix. We have four documents and we have a

signature, right? So each document is a length vector. So the purple one, that is a permutation.

So we start from the simplest permutation, which is just an increasing number. So we follow the

permutation, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and for each document, we store the index of the

first one. So the first document, the index will be three, right? The marked one. In the second and the

third document, the first one will be the first, the one one. For the last document, the first one

comes with that index too. So it's okay. Three, four. Then we design another random permutation.

So any permutation is okay. It just has to be a random permutation. So this new permutation is

opposite. Seven, two, one. Then if you follow that order, then for the first two documents, the first

ones appear at the second index. So two. For the third document, one appears at the first one,

one, and the last document is one, two, three.

Not hard, right? Let's go to the final one. That permutation looks like a more complicated.

But we can still follow it. If we follow from one, two, three, four, and I follow again permutation,

for the first document, the first one is there, one. For the second document, one, zero, two, zero,

three, zero, four, zero, five, one. The five is the first element. And then for the third document,

three, last document, two. Okay? Question? No, right? So when we do it, there is a solo point.

People ask whether the mean hash value should be the original number of the row or the number

in the permutation order. So let's say we follow this, the last permutation, right? So here,

what we store is the index of what we store in the order. So for the first document, we store

one because the one is the first element, and we store five, this is five, is the fifth element.

But we can instead store the index of the line. For instance, here,

okay. For instance, the first document, since the first index comes at the third line, we can store

three. For the second document, we can store six. For the third document, we can store two. For the

fourth document, we can store five. So these are just the line numbers of the first ones when you

follow the new permutation. So this one or that one, my answer is it is okay. It is okay as we are

consistent. So to understand why it is okay, we need to understand why we do this mean-hashing.

So the whole goal of this mean-hashing is not that we want to create some accurate matrix,

like some accurate matrix that has an answer. It is more like we want to approximate this whole

characteristic matrix in a more complex form. So as long as we are consistent, we can say some

property is still satisfying our signature matrix, although I didn't explain about the property yet.

So as long as we are consistent, we are good.

Then important thing, why do we do this? Why do we create these permutations and record the line

number which doesn't mean anything? The surprising property is here, which is the core

of the mean-hashing. Probability that mean-hash values are the same is the same as the dot-card

similarity of that. You do get the sense? Like for instance, if we go to here, the probability that

these two documents have... Okay, let me go to the later example. Okay, so here,

so this is before I explain the details, so let me look at the example. Here, let's say columns one

and two. If you compare these documents one and two, we know that there is a dot-card similarity

one over four because their reading is four, but there is a second each one. If you compare

their similarity, their similarity signature is one over three because they are once the same element

to here, but the two elements are different. Okay, and then if you compare the columns two and three,

the dot-card similarity is one over five because there are five ones overall, but their signature

similarity is one over three because they have one the same and they have two different signatures.

Okay, so here the dot-card similarity and the signature similarity seem to be different from

the others, seem to be irrelevant to each other, but theoretically it is known that the probability

that the two documents should have the same signature is the same as their dot-card similarity,

so which means if you create infinitely many signatures, then the two numbers will be probably

the same because the probability is the same. Does that make sense to you? So for every signature value,

if they can be altered, that they came the same or they came different, it just depends on what

permutation that we use, but if we apply a uniform random permutation to create many signatures,

then eventually the signature similarity will converge to the dot-card similarity.

So this is before I explain why, but it's just the thing here. Okay, so because the probability is the

same, it is basically a cradle. If you create smaller, fewer signatures, then it can be

different from the actual dot-card similarity, but if you create many signatures, then it will

cause more memory. So let me see why. Let's say we have two columns as one and as two, which

represent two different documents, G1 and G2. There are three classes of rows existing. First,

pie-bents. So if we compare two columns in the permutation matrix, they have either one in both

columns, which is pie-bents. They have either one, one, and one, zero in the other side,

which is pie-bent Y, and they have zero in both columns, which is pie-bent Z. So every row is either

pie-bent X, Y, or Z, obviously, if you think about these pair of documents as a matter of study.

Then let's say there are X rows of pie-bents, like small x, and the Y rows of pie-bent Y.

Assumption. Then the dot-card similarity between these two documents is X over X plus Y, obviously,

right? Because X is like the Y and the Y is the M. Then let's think about the probability that

their mid-touch values are the same. Here the median function is 4-page. Then the probability

that their signatures or their mid-touch values are the same is that they meet pie-bents

before they meet type Y. Why do we say a word like mid? Because we record the index of the first

row that we counter. So if for type Z, if these two columns have zero in both columns, we will skip

those rows. But as soon as we counter either X or either Y, we stop there and we record them.

So that's the reason why we care about the probability of meeting X before Y. We do not consider

the time Z. Then what is the probability to meet X before Y? The probability is simply X over

X plus Y. Which is, I mean, it's not even a complicated math, but it totally makes sense.

So if we apply a random permutation for each signature, the probability that the signature

should be the same is the same as their dot-card similarity. So although this signature matrix

seems to be irrelevant to the characteristic matrix, it is even irrelevant from the contents

of the document. So now here, its integers represent nothing. It is just an impact and it doesn't mean

a word, it doesn't mean a character, it doesn't mean anything about it. But this is much more

complex compared to characteristic matrix, and it is much easier to compute the similarity compared

to this large sparse matrix. That is like the goal of doing this mean-hash, and it's a great idea, I think.

So again, this is the last slide that I skipped. So the similarity of signatures between two

documents is the fraction of the same ones. So as I repeatedly said, the expected similarity

of two signatures equals the supply similarity of the sets that the signatures represent.

So the longer the signatures, the smaller will be the expected error. Okay, so now this signature

matrix is the final representation of documents that we have before applying this locality-sensitive

hedge function. So still, even though we have such a good signature matrix, still the problem is here.

We still need quadratic complexity to compare all pairs of documents. Even though each document is

now a very complex vector, which is good, but still we don't know how to avoid the quadratic

complexity because we still have the comparable variable base column. So until this point, I

didn't explain the core idea of this locality-sensitive hedging at all. I just explained the

preparations for going into that stage. Any questions?

No? Clear? Am I too good for explaining this one? Because this can be a little complicated,

but I guess you now understand kind of it. Okay. So let's go to the big picture, right? Big picture.

We have a document, we apply a shingly, we represent this document and set up a training

element k that are appearing in the document, and we apply a main hedging, we create shingly

shirts that are short integer vectors that represent the sets, and we reflect their

similarity. Okay, but as I said, we're going to cover the last one later, back on the next

shingly. Okay, so let's go to the final part. I mean, I've been doing this lecture for several

years while I was at KICE, and I almost took all the time to explain this, but I'm just not sure why

I'm more faster here in the same year. Probably my English got better? I don't know. So anyway,

let's go to the final part. I guess it would be okay for you to have some, like, the ability time

before the next class, so I guess it would be okay. Anyway,

main hedging looks good. Main hedging is a great idea, but the problem is, in fact, permutation is

an expensive operation. So if you think about it, I mean, if you think a little bit about

this permutation, then you know that permutation is a type of expensive operator, because

permutation is hard to approximate. Permutation is like a deterministic, global operation, which is

hard to parallelize or hard to approximate. So we want to avoid permutation, especially if we have

a lot of them, like, let's say, one billion of them, because the characteristic matrix can be

really large. The number of rows is the same as the number of shingles in our entire data set,

but it might have one billion of those. So our idea to approximate permutation is there. So we

are going to apply a random hash function to row indices, one to n, and we sort the rows in order

of their hash values. Then the result is considered as random permutation, which also makes sense,

right? So I mean, in this way, we do not guarantee that the result is the same as the permutation,

because if there is a collision, then multiple rows can be mapped to the same, like, the same

hash value, or if this to be considered as an approximate or permutation, then this hash function

should be sufficiently uniform. So this approximation is based on our belief on the probability of this

hash function. So if the hash function is good enough, then by sorting the hash values, we can

approximate the permutation. But you might think sorting is an expensive operator, right? I mean,

if we have to sort the hash values, then probably I'm going to just permute the row, which can be

faster than sorting the hash values. But the problem is we don't have to really sort the hash

value. If we implement the permutation in this way, we have a much better way to approximately

sort. But it's our ideal to implement this, we create a slug matrix with this kind of intermediate

data structure or tracking the row number, and we initialize all elements to be fitted. Then we

update this element and they conquer smaller values. So I guess it would be better for you to

see an example. Okay, so we have a characteristic matrix consisting of five rows, five signals,

and two sets to document them. And we let's say we just apply a two random response, x modified,

and x plus one modified. So it is important for us to apply an A permutation. So here,

these two hash functions correspond to two random permutations. So as we approximate a permutation

as a hash value, a sorted hash value, if you think about it, what we do in our previous mean

hashing algorithm is to record the first one, right? We follow the permutation and we record

the first one. Then in our actual implementation that corresponds to, we find the row with the

smallest hash value because our sorted hash values responds to permutation. So we just care about

the smallest value, not the entire sorted hash values. So what we actually do is we create a

slot matrix, which is a simple two by two matrix, which is basically an intermediate signature.

Then we apply a hash function, all the hash functions that we have to every row in the

particular sequence. Then the C1 has one there in the first row, right? So the hash values for the

first one is one and three based on our hash value. Then this one and three are smaller than infinity.

So we replace infinity with one and three based on the values of these hash values.

That means that are the current minimum until when we look at the first row. Then we go to the second

row, we apply these two hash functions, but in the second row, our second document has one,

or the first document has zero. So we only look at the second document and we apply these two hash

functions to the second document and which give us the value string zero, which are smaller than

infinity. So we replace infinity with printer. We go to the next row where the two documents have

ones there. Then we apply the hash functions to the row events and replace three, and then we

replace the original one through one, three, two, zero with this one. We check whether we should

replace them or not. But since this two is smaller than three here, we replace three with two, which

becomes three. All right. We go to go and if you look at the last row, the C2 has one. So we apply

the hash functions which give us values of zero and one. Compare zero and one between zero. Zero is smaller

than two, so we replace them as zero. So the final signature matrix is one, two, zero, zero. So you need to

understand what this actually means. So while we iterate from the first row to the last row,

what we do is we replace the existing signatures with the smaller ones if we encounter one.

Okay. So we follow the first row from the first row to the last row. We look at where one is, and

for every one, we compute the hash functions and if the hash values are smaller than the original

values, we replace them. So by doing this, yeah.

Sorry, can you say a little louder?

Okay. Yeah, great. So yeah, so if, let me repeat the question. So if any row has zero, zero,

can we ignore that row? Because that means we can say that is corresponding to, where is it?

Type Z here. So in fact, that doesn't affect our things like jockeys already at all, so we ignore them.

Great question. More questions? Okay. So this works because we only care about the minimum.

Like if you really need the whole sort of hash values, then it would be hard for us to

approximate in this way. But since we care about the minimum, we can simply do it. So you can easily

understand this is a linear grid, which does not take that much memory and everything is really

simple. So this is a great way to approximate permutation, which is an extensible operator.

Okay, good. So for someone who is still like a little confused for polygons, we have an algorithm,

which is also simple. So let T be a characterizing matrix and then we initialize the plot matrix M

as infinity for every other. Then for each hash function, hi, and a colon C, we initialize that

like part of the slot matrix infinity. So we have a separate initializing. Anyway, the first row

and column in the characteristic matrix, if the value is one, only then for each hash function,

we apply the hash function to the row in batch. And if the hash value is smaller than the

corresponding, same with random, slot element when you place it with a new hash function. That is the

whole algorithm, right? Like the simple 9-line circle. Okay.

So we have a part quiz. So, okay, so it is obvious that we have some time today. So let me give you

two or three minutes to put this part in.

Okay.

Okay.

Okay.

Okay.

Okay.

Anyone finished? There's Ryan. Yeah, I guess many of you have finished. So, I mean, I don't have to do it

like because it's easy, but let me just quickly do it. Okay. So we look at that characteristic matrix

from row one to row four, and we have two hash functions, right? So for the first row, since S1 has one,

we apply the hash functions to there. And, okay, so we already have computed hash functions.

So our slot matrix looks like a two by three matrix, all infinity, like infinity,

three, right? So for the first row, we are playing this to infinity to one and one. For the second row,

three and zero. For the third one, three and three. For the third row, zero and two. So we should be zero.

I think two is an easy example. Am I correct? Okay. Okay. So let me go to the final few slides.

Okay. So I want to say that, so, I mean, our course is dedicated to large data mining. So

although I believe machine learning or deep learning or even AI is a thing that is happening

these days, and they are really important, but I'm the kind of person who still believes that there

is some building on this traditional data mining, because not everything is great for machine learning.

But if you think about, at least if you think about language or documents, although our goal of this

topic is not about documents, more about like approximating the quadratic complexity comparison

into smaller ones, and it doesn't have to be documents, can be any data entities possible.

But if you just, if we reduce the scope to documents, if you really think about the documents,

then AI is really good for documents. I mean, there is no, almost no reason we develop some

data mining algorithms for documents these days, because they are too good. So what I want to say

is in the sense of our goal of full mapping, the MIP hashing is not the only way to vectorize

documents. There can be many other ways to vectorize documents, and the goal of

motoglue sensitive hashings to is meaningful, even with different types of signatures.

So let's think about another simple way, tf-idf. I think I introduced it in our first class, but

probably you don't remember it, but tf-idf is a popular way to create a signature. Another

signature. So let M be the number of unique words in the therapist, and tf-idf creates a length M

with a valid signature for its document. So that is like the infinite element. So the i element

of signature for document k is tf times idf, where tf is a paired frequency. The paired frequency is

higher if a word appears more often in a document. And then it is multiplied with the inverse document

which is the inverse of the number of documents that contain that word. So we know that a word

has a higher tf-idf score if that word is rare across the dataset, popular, or often frequently

appear in a single document. So if you apply a document, if you represent a document in this

tf-idf, we can basically create a signature that looks like this one. So here the new signature

matrix would be with the documents s1 and s2 and s3, and there can be many words like the base, ball,

peak, like that. And here probably their tf-idf scores can be stored or zero if the word does not

appear at all. So for instance, 0, 0, 0.3, 0.5, 0, 0, something like that. So this also can work as a

signature matrix, right? Because as we compare these two columns, so it's up to us whether we call this

matrix as a characteristic matrix or a signature matrix. So because characteristic matrix and

signature matrix are both representations of documents, although their compactness are a small

a little bit different, but let me call it a signature matrix in this case. So one thing the

same as our previous signature matrix is by comparing the columns here in this table,

we can approximate the similarity between documents. So the way to define a similarity

would be different here because now it is not a set, but like it is almost like a set, but a real

value set. So Jokhar similarity will not be optimal in this case, but anyway that is the thing.

Okay, so the mean hash signatures are, as we know, are integer vectors. So when we compare the two

columns in the signature matrix from the mean hash, we can measure the similarity in terms of

the number of same integer elements, mean hash signatures. But these TF-IDF signatures are real

value vectors, so that is a little different. So the two documents, two document signatures will

not share any same element, so probably we can, we should measure the distance in a real value way,

probably real value distance function between signatures, for instance, either in a cosine

similarity or any other vector similarity like that. So we're going to learn later,

but our locality-sensitive function relies on what distance function we use. So what we are going to

learn on the next Tuesday is like fit to the integer vector similarity from the mean hashing,

but if we change the distance measure, then we need another locally sensitive hash function.

But what I want to say is the idea can apply in the same way. We have a signature matrix

represented in some way, and as long as we can define the similarity here,

probably we can find some locally sensitive function that allows us to reduce the complexity,

like for compressions. So let me ask this one final question. So what are good signatures?

But these days machine learning, or as I said deep learning, or AI, or LLM, or like

so many words, is used to create signatures, but they are more like called embeddings in the field

of machine learning. So embedding is to represent some data structure, like some sparse, some dynamic,

some variable data structure as a fixed compact vector, where this vector still has some information

of the original space. That is called an embedding. And the field of machine learning to create such

embeddings is called representation learning. So for almost every data structure, like time series,

then for a time series, then we have a time series representation learning. For a graph,

we have a graph representation learning. For images, we have image representation learning,

because many data in the world are high dimensional, like the complicated ones,

but as long as we can represent them as embeddings, which are compact vectors,

then everything becomes easier. So all language models, like specifically, or all other LLMs,

basically work on embeddings. So they first decide how to represent the sentence into a

set of vectors, and then do some useful computations. So these days, at least for

documents, machine learning is not at all, but LLMs are even more powerful. So in fact, I think

if you learn this, if you take some courses on LLP, like lecture language processing, then I guess

they're not probably teach previous materials anymore, because recently, like all the language

based models have been replaced with LLMs. But anyway, if you're interested in these LLMs,

then probably there will be good courses that teach this LLP in our department or

overall in the course. And we have very good professors working on this LLP in our department

as well, computer science and engineering. So please take these courses if you're interested.

But as I said, our course is more like a little bit traditional, so more on the motivation and

the engineering on large data compared to like this fancy data anything.

So this is the summary. So let me just briefly say it. So I just introduced a problem of finding

similar items and why it is important and what that means. And we learned the shingly,

main hashing, which are the V2 stages for our framework. And then I just did some few things

that can be discovered on the main hashing. So any questions before we finish?

I think the question is one limitation which is two documents being compared is very different

in size and we learned that if you quote a more than that, the similarity is probably small.

And is there any way to calibrate this problem?

Yeah, great question. So let me say it for those who didn't like

carry. So the question is, Java similarity is biased, we can say it's biased, if the two

documents are very different in their length. Because in that way, for instance, some, let's

say one document is a length of 100 words, if the other is like 100 plus thousand words,

for instance, then the Java similarity is kind of not working at all. But first thing I can say,

first thing is, if the two documents are very different in their length, probably we can say

their similarity is different. So Java similarity will be naturally low for these cases, because

there is no way for the Java similarity to be high if the length is that much different. So

first of all, I think, well, that doesn't violate our assumption that much, because in the case,

would be still low. But if we want to increase the Java similarity, even in that case,

for instance, there might be a way that let's say one document is this much and another

documents is this much, and let's say the document B contains all the document A. So Java similarity

would be small in this case, because the union of the elements of it large. But you might want to

increase the similarity in this case, if that is the scenario that you want to detect, then probably

we have to think about the other business measures. But honestly, I cannot come up with anything at

this point, because I haven't thought about it. But there should be probably one about such cases.

So as I just say, what I teach during our course is most likely a basic, like the fundamental

information for understanding these things. But like the minor details like implementation details,

what function we use, or the approximation or automation, there can be huge more

techniques that are applied on top of these things. So for instance, if you think about like,

if you're curious about this thing, then I just think you can ask anytime to like the GPT or

something, then he will introduce or it will introduce many useful information for you to study.

Right. Okay. Yeah.

I wonder if there are some differences between the word signature and embedding? It's just

a way to speak in different fields?

Well, a good question. So from my point of view, in fact, I use the word signature

only in this topic, because I didn't see it from the other fields so far. So I just think signature

is a term for people in this mean hashing algorithm. Like the people who study mean hashing

algorithms use this word signature as a way to compact the characteristic matrix. But the word

embedding is used more in a broader manner. So embedding is not specifically limited to this

problem, like finding similar documents or anything. Embedding is more like, as I said,

an abstract vector representation of anything. Grab embedding, time series embedding, like data

set embedding, database embedding, everything can be put into the word embedding. It can be represented

as a compact word. So, and in that sense, there are many various techniques that are trying to

design these embeddings. But one thing, okay, so let me clarify this one thing. Here I can say

the important point for this mean hash signature is it should satisfy, it should satisfy, it should

like, has information of the original JAPAR similarity. So it should be okay for us to

compare the signatures of these mean hash values, and then we should be able to approximate the

original JAPAR similarity. That is like a condition for saying, for us to say that something is a

signature. For embedding, it is similar, but embedding is not just about a single similarity

measure. So in general, we expect from an embedding to contain some important information of the

original data structure. We don't know what that is. For instance, if the thing is an image, then

probably we can expect the embedding to contain some object information of the image, depth

information of the image, or a number of objects in the image. We don't know that. And in fact,

based on where we use these embeddings, the requirements can change. But in a general sense,

we expect from an embedding to have some crucial information of the original data structure,

while for this signature, we don't have such expectations. It is just okay for us to

approximate the JAPAR similarity based on this signature. Good pitch. More to come?

Okay. So if there are no more questions, just please look at the ETL for probably upcoming

homework assignment instruction, and please check it before it's too late. And ask any questions

if you have one. So that's it for today, and see you next week.

