Good morning everyone.

Let's begin a new class.

So yeah, the name of the new topic that we're going to learn today is demand-internal reductant.

And the problem today is a little bit of MEN class.

So I guess our previous topics were mostly about implementation or how to expand an existing

algorithm to large-scale data.

But today it's mostly for getting a mathematical insight on how the data is represented and

how to understand data.

So the number of slides is not much today.

Like I guess we have only 34 slides.

But since it's a little bit mathematical, I'm not sure like how easy for you to understand.

But I'm going to try my best.

And if you know linear algebra very well, or if you have very good mathematical intuition,

then I guess this class would be easy to follow.

But if you did not take any linear algebra class, or if you're not familiar with dealing

with matrices or vectors, then you might need some time to review today's conference later.

Announcements.

The point is there.

So the deadline is only one week.

In one week, so basically combined, you need to take the deadline and the number two will

be announced at the same date as the deadline.

So the somewhere you choose that line would be April 30th.

And here is the information for the weekend, which is from you.

So the May, April, May, March, like the regular class time, like from 9.30 to 10.45.

I want you to make it a little longer, but some of you might need to go to the other

class like at 11.

So I just try to get the original by the way.

Because I might give you more time for the exam, because I want to get in the regular

time, you really need to get in the time by 9.30.

So where is the I?

We have two different classrooms because the number of students is too many to get you

in this classroom.

It will be a good product.

So we will announce a basic rule to separate you to these two classrooms.

Probably use your student ID or you need to use the good programs.

And I personally thought a lot of how I'm going to proceed with the exam.

In fact, when I was doing this lecture on ice, I gave you like two hours and 30 minutes

for the exam and I did a lot of them.

But since we did not have such a long time, I was trying to change the rule for the first

time in my life for there.

So it's very, very simple.

Most of the time leaders were painting.

Not a lot of it.

But I assure you that I personally don't like memorizing.

I don't want to pass your memorization skill because that's not what I really want you

to have.

So I later want to ask your understanding skills like how did you understand the content

and how well you can like use the knowledge that you learned to solve other problems.

So that's what I really want to test.

So I attempted to do this whole loop test or evaluate such a thing.

But since as I said, we don't have like most time for exam, I just think it would be harder

for us to get you to solve a too difficult problem because of the limited time.

So this time I will do it in a closed loop scheme.

So just please keep in mind that like I mean, you won't have any

what was made that in the English like any previous exam for you to study.

So I can.

Okay.

I will share you some of the exams that I did.

I created it more times.

So when I was so you can refer to these exam questions for your own like study.

But I assure you that these previous exams were like for the open book test.

So the difficulty is higher for these exams.

On the other hand, since I'm going to do it close to this time, I guess the general questions

will be easier than before.

So just please don't think about the exam style too much because it can change as I

move to a new school.

But you just use this the materials that I'm going to share as just a supplementary

parallel for your own study.

So more questions?

Any questions on the exam or course or anything?

No.

No.

Recap.

So our previous topic was flustering.

Flustering was in fact a very intuitive topic, I guess.

And we learned three different algorithms, the FMR, TUR, and GR.

All of which focus on large disk residents.

So all of them are based on simple ideas on flustering, whether it's a hierarchical

or teams or any style they're based on, or how to represent a cluster, how to

summarize a cluster, how to merge a cluster.

So there were various tricks for designing a clustering algorithm.

And these three algorithms introduce different choices, different design choices for various

components of the clustering algorithm.

And the choices make each of these algorithms unique.

So for instance, if you think of a pure algorithm, it's super simple and it's based on

a hierarchical clustering, while if you go to GR to be able to represent it, it uses

the concept of rosum to represent a cluster.

Or if you go to VMware, although it's a great algorithm, it looks good.

It relies on the function that the given things are in convenient.

So these design choices are related to the functions that they create or the efficiency

that you can provide to the user.

So that's just the thing.

Clustering locations of the clustering.

Right.

Great.

So let's move on to our new topic.

More, I personally like this topic more than the previous one, like the clustering or even

the frequent items and mining, because this dimensional reduction is really important

even for modern machine learning.

If you want to become a machine learning engineer, or if you want to get a great mathematical

insight on data, I guess dimensional reduction and all the things that we learned today

is really important.

So let's think about the dimensionality reduction.

So what it means.

So I try to make you understand that data can be represented in various ways.

Some data are like, as you remember, are like market basket data.

Some data can be a time series data, sequential data, or some data can be some points in the

space that we did in the core clustering.

So there is no single way to represent data.

But if I have to pick the most popular way or the most common way to represent data,

then I will say I will represent the data as a matrix.

By n by n matrix where n is a number of data points or samples or instances.

These are just different terms.

And n is number of features or attributes or the number of information that we have

to represent each sample or data.

So in really, really many cases, when we like work in a company or when we gather data,

almost all the data that we think of can be represented as a matrix.

For instance, when we think about the health data set, let's represent each person as a

tool of height, weight, BMI, blood pressure, age, and all or such information to represent

a person.

So one thing is these features are flexible.

So there is no, as I said, fixed way to represent a person.

Like these types of features or number of features are just lots of designer, engineer

design.

For instance, if our goal is to understand this guy's health condition in terms of weight

and height, probably I'm going to add this BMI because it is useful for others and because

it guides the health function.

But for instance, if I want to specify whether this person has cancer or not, for instance,

then I will probably need some more features like very important methods or some x-ray

images like that.

So these features are flexible.

They can be created or discarded based on our goal or based on what we want.

But there's one thing which does not change is regardless of the number of features, the

types of features, it will be a matrix.

So let's think about the many goal.

Then we can say that if we have an n by n data matrix or data, then we can say every data

point lies on an n dimensional space, whether the space is Euclidean or not.

We're not sure of that, but still it will be an n dimensional space.

But since the features are arbitrary, since the features can be created or discarded,

we can say the many goal of data, like the true space, the true dimensional data can

be different from n.

Why is that?

Because...

Let me show you one example.

Where is it?

Okay, let's go back to this slide.

So, you know, this D&I innovation can be computed from Python Minecraft.

So some features will be able to compute it from the other features.

So then let's say I'm an engineer, so I want to keep adding the features and features based

on the existing features.

Then they will add some representational ability of this person, but they do not give

uniformity to this person because these new features are computed based on existing

features.

So we can say that even in that case, if we add features from the existing features, that

will increase the number of dimensionality, but that does not increase the dimensionality

of this many goal.

So that's the meaning of the many goal.

Or we can say the number of latent features, which really determine the characteristic

of this person.

So this is an example that I just said.

Like if you represent some person with their weight, height, and VMI, then you can say

the many goal is probably 2, because I mean there are two unique information matrices.

So the management of the many goal is basically to find such a many goal or to find these

latent vectors from a large data bank.

Because in that way, you can compress data, or we can really focus on more important things

rather than by discarding unnecessary information that represent the person.

For instance, if you look at the first figure, this is basically a two-dimensional point.

But if we look at this figure, almost all points are diverged, distributed along a single

line.

Then we can say this data may be almost one-dimensional.

Why almost?

Because there is still a little bit of distance from this line.

So they are not exactly on a one-dimensional many goal, but almost.

Because we can safely discard the distance from the line, if you really are saying that,

one single line.

Or if you look at the second figure, although all these points are lying on the three-dimensional

space, most of them are like a two-dimensional plane.

Then you can say that many goal is in fact a two-dimensional space.

So what I want to say is representation is not unique.

It's up to us how to manage this representation and how to create a new one which is more

effective to deal with.

So that's the goal of dimensionality reduction.

So if you think about it, as I repeatedly say over matrix, this whole kind of dimension

order reduction is closely related to linear algebra.

Because this whole thing is about the characteristic of a matrix, which is a mathematical term.

So let's think about the rank.

How many of you know the rank of a matrix?

Let's see, raise your hand.

Almost all?

Great.

Great.

Okay.

But let me just explain it again for those who are not familiar with linear algebra.

The rank of a matrix is the number of layers of matrix.

So, I mean, if we know the rank of a matrix, then it means we know the number of dimensionality

for the big name.

So the rank is represented by the number of layers of matrix for representing this manifold.

And in that rank, the rank is the number of linearly independent rows or columns of a

matrix.

And here, linear independence means there is no non-zero linear sum of rows that is

one.

So I will make it fast.

So let's think about the three points in a three-dimensional space.

If you look at this matrix, this is three by three.

So we have three points which are on three-dimensional space.

But we know that the rank of this matrix is two.

Because there is an equation to represent the third row C as a linear combination of

A and D.

Or we have the data that represents the third column as a linear combination of the first

and the second column.

That means the third information is redundant or unnecessary to store in our matrix.

Because it can be created for these six matrices.

So based on this relationship, we know that the actual rank is two.

Which means if we reduce the dimensionality of that matrix into two, we do not lose any

information because the actual rank is two.

Okay.

So in that case, if we know that the rank is two, then we can rewrite the coordinates

efficiently reducing the dimensionality from three to one.

Let's consider the A vector.

Like the A was a single row of the matrix, remember?

So you know that like in the previous slide, A, B, and C are referring to three different

samples or three different points.

Let's consider A. The first row.

Our old basis vectors, like the basis of the space or the axis are like 1, 0, 0, 0, 1,

0, 0, 0, 1, which are very trivial three dimensional basis vectors.

So with that basis vector, we represent A as a linear combination of these three basis

vectors where 1, 2, 1 represent the weights of these basis vectors.

But as we know that our rank is really two, we can create a better basis vector.

Like these two.

Then with these two basis vectors, we can represent each sample with the two numbers

based on the linear combination of the two basis vectors, like A, 1, 0, B, 0, 1, 3, C,

1, minus 1, which means we have successfully reduced the number of dimensions.

Although probably we should store the information of these basis vectors probably somewhere

in our family.

But with these new basis vectors, we can successfully represent any point with two

numbers without losing any information.

So in the real world case, this is not common because the data is noisy.

In the real world, it is rare to observe that a matrix has a really small rank.

So it has in fact a high rank, but the error is not that much.

For instance, as I said, a case like this or a case like that, we know that the actual

manifold is small in the medical space, but the error can be system because of the curve.

And in this case, the actual rank of the matrix is not 1 and 2, but it's mostly 2 and 3.

I just wanted to say there is a little bit of difference between the mathematical rank

and the actual manifold.

But you know what I'm saying, right?

Anyway, this is the meaning of the rank.

So as I said, this dimension-only reduction is reducing the representation of each sample

based on the rank.

Or we can say we want to discover the actual accesses of data following the manifold.

For instance, here, then we can say our goal of dimension-only reduction is to find this

red line, which is the manifold of the data.

And then with that red line, which is our new coordinate, we can present each point

with a single coordinate following this red line.

So by doing this, we incur a little bit of error.

Since the points in this figure do not exactly lie on the line, there will be no error if

the rank is really low.

But even though there is a little bit of error there, I can say the one-dimensional reduction

is still useful because I mean it's a two-line reduction, right?

So that's it.

Any questions?

Yeah.

We consider linear relationships between data.

First of all, the dimension of manifold doesn't have to be something like linear combination.

Yeah, great question.

So in fact, at least in today's course, we will consider only the linear relationships.

The problem is if we extend our scope into nonlinear relationships, and if we

think that, for instance, if we consider this matrix to be ramped to be just because the

third column can be created by a nonlinear relationship between all the first two columns,

then I think the whole thing becomes really complicated.

Because I mean, first of all, if you extend our scope to nonlinear relationships, then there

can be a lot of nonlinear functions there.

Probably there can be even the most complicated neural network.

Then let's say even though the third column can be represented by a fancy neural network

that takes the first or the second column as an input, it's hard to say if the column

is redundant because there will be an overhead of creating such a neural network for creating

third column.

So at least in the mathematical view, or at least for the ease of the learning, I can

say that mostly the domain-internet reduction focuses on the linear relationship.

But if we go into the field and if you are familiar with all these machine learning

techniques, then I can say we can extend this knowledge to nonlinear things.

I mean, was it a good answer to your question?

In the field, we consider about the nonlinear relationship between the guy and the answer.

Okay, so in fact, in the field, we're not interested in the ranking.

Because the ranking is mostly like mathematical term.

So in fact, in the real life, let's say, okay, I'm going to spend a few minutes in the practice.

So in the industry, its data is represented as an n by n matrix.

In the industry, m is millions and n is like thousands or tens of thousands.

And even the computing the actual rank of this matrix takes a lot of time.

So in this case, we just forcefully reduce the dimensionality into like, for instance,

10 or 5 or 2.
10, 5, 2.

Because humans can only see up to like three-dimensional space, right?

Like from the paper.

So the actual dimensionality reduction is not based on this fundamental understanding of data.

It just takes, we just take the original dimensionality like 10 or 100 or 1000,

and we just reduce it to two for visualization purposes like that.

So I can say that things are more like messy or coarse in the field.

But before we go into this messy field, we want to have more fundamental understanding of the thing.

Okay?

More questions?

Great.

No questions?

No?

Great.

Great.

Okay.

So I mean, when I prepare the slide for space,

if I just skip all these linear algebra things, probably I'd have included much more things in this.

So I want this class to be open even for the students who are not that dumb leader with linear algebra.

I'm going to just talk about some basics of linear algebra before talking about very complicated things.

So probably for some students, they might be some easy to follow if you are, as I said, familiar with linear algebra.

So let's first talk about linear eigenvalues and eigenpairs,

which are the very fundamental concepts for understanding matrices.

So let me first define some terms.

A vector, V, is a unique vector.

If it's L2 more than one, or we can say the square sum of its elements,

the relative version of that is one, then we can say that vector is a unique vector,

or we can say the length is one in the linear space.

And two vectors, Vn, V1 and V2 are orthogonal if their dot plus of zero,

which means their angle is 90 degrees by inner space.

And the two vectors are orthogonal if these two vectors are what you need vectors and orthogonal vectors,

which is a more restriction compared to orthogonal vectors.

And the matrix A is said to be orthogonal if its rows and columns are orthogonal with each other.

So either its rows are orthogonal or its columns are orthogonal.

Either in each case, the matrix can be said to be orthogonal.

And if the matrix is orthogonal, then we can say

the A transpose is the same as A inverse because if the matrix is orthogonal,

A transpose should be an identity matrix because if the matrix is orthogonal,

the dot product between different rows would be only zero.

But the dot product between the same rows will be always one.

So A transpose equals identity matrix and A transpose A equals identity.

So because we have this identity between A transpose and A transpose A,

we can say A transpose is A inverse.

And because they are the same as identity matrix.

So very basic terms.

So let's talk about eigenvalues and eigenvectors.

So I mean, this is not linear algebra.

So I'm just focused on the very simple functions or concepts.

So let M be an n by n square matrix, lambda be a scalar, and E be a vector.

Lambda is defined like it's called an eigenvalue of M,

and E is called the corresponding eigenvector corresponding to this lambda f,

and times E, like matrix vector multiplication, equals lambda E.

That means we have a direction that is represented as a vector E.

But if we transform this vector with this matrix M, it doesn't change direction.

It only changes the scale of the vector.

If there is such a vector E with the corresponding value lambda,

we can say E to be an eigenvector of M and lambda to be an eigenvector of M.

And this pair, like the pair of lambda and E, is called an eigenpair because it creates a pair.

And the eigenvector with the largest lambda, or more specifically,

the largest value of the absolute lambda, is called the principal eigenvector.

So this eigenvector and eigenvalue are really important for understanding the characteristic

of the matrix. We can say, although it is not that obvious from this equation,

but understanding these eigenpairs or telling these eigenpairs of this matrix gives us a very

good intuition on how this matrix transforms the matrix in the space, or how this matrix performs

in the space. So if you're curious, I really want you to think of a different class, but here

is just some concept. But there is an ambiguity, as it's obvious from proofs, right?

Because if E is an eigenvector, then always C times E, where C is a constant, is also an eigenvector.

Why is that? Because if we consider, like let's say E is an eigenvector, then we compute M, C,

like the matrix scalar vector, then we can exactly solve this border between C and M.

And we know that M, E equals lambda E because E is an eigenvector. Then lambda is a scalar,

sigma is a scalar, so we can change their order. That means if E is an eigenvector,

always this constant multiplications are always eigenvectors, which means there can be intuitively

many eigenvectors corresponding to the same eigenvalue, which is not good for us,

which creates an ambiguity. So in our course, we require every eigenvector to be a unit vector.

So it's like a rule that we just create, or we reduce it such an ambiguity. And we also

force that the first non-zero component of an eigenvector to be positive, because there

also is an ambiguity of sign. We can compute, we can consider C to be a minus one, and that will

convert the sign to eigenvector, creating another ambiguity. So by enforcing these two conditions,

we can say there would be one distinct eigenvector for a single eigenvalue, at least reducing this

ambiguity. I mean, there can be multiple eigenvectors for a single eigenvalue, but that will be because

of the matrix property, but not because of this ambiguity. So this is just properties that we're

going to assume. So here is a pretty simple example of the eigenvector. So there is an n.

I'm not sure if it's ranked better or not, but there is an eigenvector E here and a lambda here.

So E transported by m is still E multiplied by lambda 7. So here we say that this is an eigenvalue

because it's normed and one is an eigenvector, and the first element is positive, and seven is an

eigenvalue responding to that eigenvector. Then, I just said, eigenpairs are important.

Eigenpairs give us many information on the matrix. Then, what would be a way to get such an

eigenpair, or what would be a way to know that there are eigenpairs? So one of the ways is

So this is not an algorithm. This is more like a definition of a thing or decomposition of a thing.

So let's say we are given a square matrix M, then the eigendecomposition of this matrix is defined

as this decomposition of this matrix into three matrices multiplied. So here Q and lambda. Q is an

n-value matrix whose size is the same as m, whose i column is the eigenvector of m,

and lambda is the diagonal matrix whose diagonal elements are the eigenvalues. So if

m can be decomposed into this way, then it can say m has its eigendecomposition. And by making this

and by decomposing m into this form, we just instantly know it's all eigenvectors inside Q

and all eigenvalues in lambda which are responding to these eigenmetries. So this

eigen decomposition is not existing for all matrices. This is existing for some matrices,

and I'm going to talk later, but this is just that information, eigeninclusion. And in fact,

all the things that I talk in this part are needed for later understanding the later algorithm. So

I'm just giving you the preliminary knowledge to understand the base concepts in linear algebra.

Okay, any questions so far? No? Nothing hard, right? Okay. Then let's think about the condition

for a matrix to have an eigen decomposition. Because I just said not all matrices have their own

eigenvectors. So let's think of a diagonalizable matrix. A sphere matrix D is diagonal if its

elements are 1, its diagonal entries are 0. I mean, it's obvious. How do you think of diagonal matrix?

Maybe I don't have to say this condition. But anyway, we know that these are diagonal matrix.

So here there is one general concept. A square matrix that is diagonalizable, so it's not

diagonal, but it's diagonalizable if it is almost, it is close to a diagonal matrix. It's almost

diagonal matrix in an informal way, which seems really strange to say, right? So in a formal way,

a matrix M is diagonalizable if there is, if there exists an invertible matrix P and the diagonal

matrix P, which that would satisfy this equation. That means we know a square matrix M. If we have

an invertible matrix P multiplied here and there with the numbers, then there is a diagonal matrix,

which means we can say this matrix M is diagonalizable to be based on an invertible matrix P.

So only if there is such a condition, then we can say that M is diagonalizable. So there is a reason

why I can say informally it is almost a diagonal matrix, because we know that invertible matrix is

not that common in the world. Invertible matrix, in fact, invertibility is a hard, like a condition

that is hard to satisfy. So if there is such a P, then you can say, okay, M is, although it's not

readily diagonal matrix, but it can be diagonalizable. So we can say M is diagonalizable matrix.

Then why do we think about the diagonalizable matrix? I mean, why is it important? So the thing

is any diagonalizable matrix has diagonalizable matrix. So in fact, identical position is defined

for diagonalizable matrixes, not all. So let's think about why. Why, like, I mean, why this,

in the previous slide, why this diagonalizability is related to this identical position, because they

seem to be relevant to each other. Why is that? Because the main reason is because this

any diagonalizable matrix of M always has N linearly independent eigenvectors. We always can

ensure that every matrix M has N linearly independent eigenvectors, which is a great

condition. So let's think about it. Here is a little proof. So I will let you know some proofs,

and I will skip some proofs based on the difficulty of that. But here is a simple proof, because

M, because of that, all the matrix is you. So because M is a diagonalizable matrix, we know that

there are some matrices P and D that satisfy the deviation. So if we multiply P on the left side

of the left side of the deviation, then we have M P equals M D. So here we know that D is a diagonal

matrix. So if you look at this M P equals P D, you know that D is a diagonal matrix.

So we can represent D as some kind of this form. Then because of, because this is a diagonal

matrix, if you think really about this, like, relationship between these three matrices,

like, let's say this is M, this is P, and this is P. So if you compute this whole

matrix M with the column here, right, then it always corresponds to the column here

multiplied with this element. So because this is diagonal, we can decompose this whole equation

into the column-wise manner of this matrix P. Because this is diagonal, this column does not

interact with each other. Each column works on its own. So that means we can rewrite this whole

thing as a column-wise way, where M times V i, where V i is the i column of P equals P times

lambda i times E i, where lambda i is the i element of this diagonal matrix, and E i is the i

column of the identity matrix. So just lambda i E i doesn't mean anything. It just means the i element

of this i diagonal matrix, where its position is fixed by this i column of the identity matrix E i.

So, I mean, I'm not sure how difficult it looks, this equation, but in fact it's really simple,

because the, this one, like, into M P i equals P times lambda i E i, E is a column-wise understanding

of the previous equation, M P equals P. So this i can be any column inside P. So if we write this

equation in this way, based on the understanding that this is a diagonal matrix, then we have a

great intuition of, yeah, intuition of, because P, okay, let's think about P in this matrix form,

okay, like, sorry for the limited space P. Then, because this is the identity, like,

column of the identity matrix, we can rewrite the right-hand side as lambda i, just simply V i.

V i is the i column of P, lambda i, again, is the i element of this i diagonal matrix. So it might be

a little fast, but you can understand it if you take some time. So if you write in this way the

right-hand side term and the left-hand side term, and we look at both of them, then we know that,

in fact, V i is an eigenvector of N, always, because this is the definition of the eigenvalue here,

and lambda i is an eigenvalue of N. So what I really want to say is, by definition,

if a matrix M is diagonalizing, if a matrix M is diagonalizing, then it always has this matrix

that's changed. And just by rewriting this agent, I will look at P on the left side, then we can

understand that this column of P, V i, represented by i, this column of P works as an eigenvector of N,

just by definition of diagonalizability. And because of that, this element of P works as an eigenvalue of P.

In other words, that means if we just knew that some matrix is diagonalizable, if you know its

diagonalized form, we don't have to find this eigenpiped, we just know that these

eigenvectors are inside P. So in fact, this diagonalizability and eigendecomposability,

or any word that I can say, are very related to each other. In fact, they are obviously equivalent,

but I'm not going to dig into the relationship between the two. So therefore, the columns of P

are eigenvectors of N, and on top of that, we know that P is invariable by definition.

So if P contains eigenvectors of N, and if P is invariable at the same time, then we know that

all these eigenvectors are related to each other. So that's the simple proof.

So why is it important? Why is it important? Because if you go back to this eigendecomposition,

for a matrix to have this eigendecomposition, it should be able to... Sorry, this is the

diagonalization. So if a matrix, for a matrix to have this eigendecomposition, it should be able

to be decomposed into this form, where Q is an eigenvector of N, and here Q has an inverse form,

which is a pipe-tree condition. But since we know that if N is diagonalizable, it will contain N

linearly independent eigenvectors, we know that this Q is invariable for every diagonalizable

matrix. So for every diagonalizable matrix, it has its eigendecomposition, and we can say it has all

these eigenvectors and eigenvalues that we're interested in. So in fact, today, we mostly cover

only diagonalizable matrix, because if you go beyond that, if you just go into more arbitrary

matrix, then we don't know whether there are good eigenpairs for two matrices or not. So this is like

making our scope into a small diagonal matrix, which is diagonalizable.

Any questions? No? Straightforward? I'm not that fast, right? Okay. So this is just the last slide

of what is pre-learned. So we just learned eigendecomposition and diagonalizable, and let's

think about a little bit of different matrix. So let's ask the N by N real matrix matrix,

where S equals the terms, and overall, we are not going to consider complex matrices. So all

matrices are real. So if S is a real matrix matrix, then we have the very great properties that limit

like the condition of this. For instance, first, S has N order normal eigenvectors,

which is a stronger condition. I mean, we know that every diagonalizable matrix M has

N linearly independent eigenvectors, but we are not sure whether they are more

normal to each other or not. We just know that they are linearly independent. But if M is a

symmetric, then these linearly independent eigenvectors are even more normal, which is a

stronger condition. So I will not prove the first property. You can find one if you're interested

in, but this is the best simple statistics explanation that I can give you. So this

symmetry of S lets us act independently along all the model trees. So because symmetry is a

quite strong condition for a matrix of all, because of that, we can say, I'm just not sure

how to represent this, but this symmetry makes this matrix has very unique property of having

N order normal eigenvectors. And because of that, because N has N order normal eigenvectors, obviously

S has N linearly independent eigenvectors. And in fact, here I said, if a matrix is diagonalizable,

it has N linearly independent eigenvectors, right? That's what I said. But in fact, the converse is

also true. If a matrix has N linearly independent eigenvectors, then the matrix is always

diagonalizable. So I didn't say this slide, but it is in fact the truth, and the proof is quite simple.

So I encourage you to do your own proof for that. But it's a case. So because this symmetric matrix

has N order normal eigenvectors, this matrix is always diagonalizable, which means it always has

an identity conclusion. So the symmetry matrix always has an identity conclusion. And if we

apply the identity conclusion to this matrix S, then Q is always order normal. Not just invariable,

but normal. This is right. So at this point, you will understand why I spent this much time

to this symmetric matrix, because for later equations, we are mostly interested in

diagonalizable matrix and symmetric matrices, whose properties are shown to be right.

Okay. So that was a little linear algebra lecture in data mining. Any questions?

No? Great. In fact, if I have to pick one mathematical area for being an expert in

machine learning or AI, I would say linear algebra. Linear algebra is really important,

because as I said, almost all data can be represented as matrices or high-dimensional

matrices called tensors. And linear algebra allows us to have a very great understanding on

how this data is represented and how this data is transformed. Okay. So here is the real topic

that I want to discuss. Power iteration and principal component analysis, which are different

algorithms. So our main question is, how can we actually perform identity conclusion? I mean,

we just learned it's good. It gives us some knowledge of the front matrix, but how can we

do it? So there are two fundamental questions, which are Q-org algorithm and power equation.

I will not talk about Q-org algorithm, which is more of a standard way, but Q-org algorithm

is really slow for right-wingers. And as I said, our approach is for large data, so we will focus

only on the power iteration. Power iteration is fast, but its main goal is to find the largest

identity value and its corresponding principal identity. Power iteration is not for giving us

all these identity errors. It's mostly for the principal identity. Because of that, we focus

on the power iteration, and we have some large matrix. So what is a power iteration? In fact,

it's a really simple algorithm that allows us to find the principal eigenvector of n, n

efficiently. Again, here our assumption is n should be a diagonalizable matrix. If it's not,

we're not even sure how many eigenvectors are there, so let's skip it. Power iteration is

defined only for diagonalizable matrix. Here's a three-line super simple algorithm. First,

we start with any non-zero vector, like zero of length n, where n is the number of

diagonalizable matrix. Then we construct another x, like the next iteration x, by multiplying

the previous x with n and dividing its length by its length, so that the result becomes a uniform.

That's it. We just update this initial x, no matter what it is, by multiplying x n,

okay, in a way, like hundreds of times over tens of times. And then when there is no update,

when there is a convergence, then we start. That's it. I mean, that's it. We start from a random

vector, we multiply n until it converges. So let's see what really is n and how it works.

So let's think about this simple matrix n, 2 by 2, and that probably is diagonalizable,

and our initial vector would be x zero. If we multiply x zero with n and divide by this more,

then we get this new vector. I mean, 3 and 5 is the result of multiplying n and x zero,

I don't have to do it 3 and 5, and we divide the norm of this multiplication in square root of 34,

so we divide it by square root of 34, and we get a new vector, which is quite different from our

original vector. So we do it again. We multiply n and x one again to have this new vector,

and we divide it by x one. We have another vector x two. Well, all those two are almost

equivalent, right? I mean, we didn't even show that this upgrade that really converges, but

it is almost converging. So if you do it, I guess, for two or three more times, it will almost

converge to the state of state. Then we stop. That's it. That's the end of the power equation.

Here is the surprise. The converged x is approximately a nice vector of n. Why is that?

Because how we proceed with this iteration is to compute mx from x. So let's say there isn't

convergence. That means our new mx is almost the same as our previous x. So if we reach a steady

state, if we just convert it, then you can say our current x, although the x subscript can be any

number, like based on the number of iterations, our current x is almost an eigenvector because

it is almost like x equals mx. So here you see that there is no scalar there. There is no

eigenvector value there because of our division that we do. So here we only care about the

eigenvector, not eigenvalue. So that's the reason why we can divide this vector by its norm so that

we can force it to be a leading vector. So this algorithm is not for binding on eigenvalue. It's

mostly binding on eigenvector. So if we converge, then we can say our final x is almost an eigenvector

of the matrix. Then because how we treat it alone doesn't give us an eigenvalue, we have to find an

eigenvalue from the computatives which can be computed easily by including x transpose mx.

What is that? Because, okay, I'll just follow it. So let's say lambda is an eigenvector, because

x is an eigenvector, mx becomes a lambda x, and lambda can be there, like to the front,

and x transpose x is 1, so there is one. So if we start from x transpose mx, we always have an

eigenvalue because our x is a unique vector. So with our equation, we can, by just a simple few

iterations of multiplication, we can find the eigenvector, and we can find its corresponding

eigenvalue with that simple addition. So if we have an x like converged x,

looking like that, we can compute its eigenvalue in this way, 4.25.

All right, good. So at least we know that this power recreation gives me some eigenvector,

which is good. More surprises, the converged x is approximately the principal eigenvector,

not any random eigenvector, but it should be a principal eigenvector. Let's see what.

We need but one important function. Our assumption is, so I mean, you know, the eigenvalues doesn't

have to be unique, right? So we suppose that these eigenvalues are always in this way. The first

eigenvalue is greater than all other eigenvalues. If we sort that in the decreasing order, that is

the only assumption that we know. If that assumption is violated, then this power equation can go wrong.

That is a very unique case that I will not study. So if our assumption is true, let the

corresponding eigenvectors that are corresponding to these eigenvalues to be b1, b2, bn, then we can

represent our initial random vector. It can be anything. It can be a random initial vector

as this way, as a linear combination of these all eigenvectors. Why is it possible? Because we know

that any diagonal by diagonal matrix contains n linearly independent eigenvectors. So we can

fill the whole space with these eigenvectors, and that's the reason why you can represent any

vector b1. If we multiply n like multiple times with power equation, then what we have is,

if we compute m x0, for instance, because we can represent x0 as that linear combination,

it will be n times probably c1, b1 plus etc. And that will be m c1, b1, etc. Which will be c1,

lambda 1, v1. So as we multiply m one time, that is the same as multiplying the corresponding

eigenvalue to that eigenvector. Lambda 1 to the first one, lambda 2 to the second one, and so on.

So if you multiply m k times, then that is the same as multiplying the corresponding eigenvalues

for each pair, which will give us this equation. So one thing that we know that lambda 1 is greater

than all the other eigenvalues. So if we put the lambda 1 out from this equation, then we have

this thing. So if you look at this equation, we have lambda 1 to the power k up front, and we have

the c1, v1 there, and all the other eigenvalues, they are divided by lambda 1, because the k is

the same. But we know that lambda 1 is greater than all these eigenvalues. So as k increases,

as k increases, all these terms will go to zero, will be discarded. The first one will be removed,

which gives us the fact that our v1, our v, like our corresponding final vector x k,

has the same direction as v1. So here, again, we do not consider the constants because we

normalize these vectors. So this simple proof allows us to know that our power iteration gives

us the principal eigenvector in a very simple and efficient way. The only thing that we need for

running this power iteration is matrix multiplication. And if you remember the memory

use thing, or the smart thing, matrix multiplication is one of the one of these algorithms that are

really suitable for distributed computing. So this power iteration is bad, it's really scalable,

and really bad, and you can compute it in memory use. So it doesn't like, and can be really bad,

because it can be scalable. But anyway, we just learned that the result of power iteration is a

principal eigenvector, which is good. Then how can we find more eigenvectors, more eigenvalues,

because we are more interested in other eigenvectors as well, but just the principal one.

So that can be done by removing the principal eigenvector from the weak. Then you might ask,

how can we remove an eigenvector from a weak? That can be done in this way. We have M,

and we subtract from M lambda times X, X transpose. So I'll not talk much about it,

but you can intuitively consider that, that is eliminating the effect of the first,

like the eigenvector X from the weak. That is like reducing the rank of the matrix by one,

by removing one exit of the eigenspace. So given the result, M star, we can apply the power

iteration again to this M star to find the second principal eigenvector of the original matrix M.

And then it gives us really, it really gives us a new eigenvector. So if we divide the principal

eigenvector, subtract the principal eigenvector from the matrix, and the resulting matrix M star

looks like more, how do you say that, more not that big compared to the original matrix, because

it has a smaller effect in the space. But if you apply power iteration again to this matrix,

then it gives us the principal eigenvector of this matrix, which is the second principal

eigenvector of the original matrix. So if we apply this power iteration five times or ten times,

then it gives us five largest eigenvectors corresponding to the five largest eigenvalues.

Yeah.

Oh, in power iteration, if you're very unlucky and the initial vector is almost no

performance, or the crystalline and the convergence can be very slow, how likely is such

unlucky thing to happen?

So you mean unlucky thing is mostly relying on the initial vector or?

The initial vector. The C1 is almost zero thing.

Yeah, it is a correct observation. So I can say, I, so I'm not sure whether there would be a

theoretical like study on the relationship between the initial vector and the convergence speed.

There should be some papers, but I didn't check these papers. But what I can say is in practice,

power iteration converges really fast. So I just, I'm not that interested in the mathematical study

of power iteration, but I did run this power iteration a lot, like during my study, and it is

really good in practice. And I can say it's, the case that you said is quite rare in practice.

As long as we do not initialize X to be really ill-defined vector, as long as it's, for instance,

random uniform vector, then I guess it's good. Yeah. And another thing is probably I can say,

later we'll learn PageRank. PageRank is a magic algorithm that, as I said, that built the empire

of Google. And in fact, this power iteration is a core engine for the PageRank. So you will understand.

So in terms of the PageRank, this, like this power iteration is not for arbitrary matrices

and arbitrary vectors. It has more strict use cases for running this power iteration. So

that's the reason why probably I didn't face any rare unlucky cases you mentioned. So you will be

understanding this whole thing better later. Right? Yeah. Locations? Great. So in fact,

power iteration is a useful algorithm, but again, it doesn't seem to relate to the

dimensionality result. So in fact, this PCA is the real goal of today's course. So like the

private 2 and private 3 are more like a preliminary knowledge for understanding PCA. And PCA is really

popular for them. I mean, it is used a lot. So what is PCA? Principal component analysis.

Given an dimensional data, it finds a new n-axis such that the first dimension shows the greatest

variance and the second dimension shows the next greatest variance over the world, the first

direction. So this input and output definitions of PCA themselves are almost the same as dimension

only reduction, because we want to find meaningful access from the data to create a new data manifold

in reduced dimension. Right? But what this PCA does is almost the same as the goal of the

It finds the first principal component that shows the great variance of the data. And visually,

the first principal component is the axis that we want to find from the data. And the second one,

on the first one, is again the next one to understand the data. So if you find, for instance,

10 principal components by running PCA, that means we have successfully found the 10 most important

dimensions as a result of dimension only reduction. So in fact, when we say we're going to learn

dimension only reduction, it almost assumes it's PCA, because they are really related to each other.

The problem is how does PCA work, right? So we understood the goal of PCA, but how it actually

works is we are given an n-by and data matrix. So again, we move from the mathematical world to a real

world. So again, here, we don't know whether it's a diagonalizable or square or not. We have just a

data matrix, n, and by n, assuming it's a column-wise zero. So this column-wise zero means you can

consider that as a standardization. For instance, if you represent patients by their weight, height,

and DMI, then this height, weight, and DMI will have different distributions. For example, height

is different from weight in their distribution. So we compute the column mean, and we

shift each column based on this column mean so that for every column is zero. Then it's a very

simple data standardization technique that we can apply for any data matrix, and in fact, then

doesn't violate any assumption that we have. So it's okay to assume that our matrix is column-centered.

And if the data matrix is column-centered, then we can do the data in this way. Because of the

column-centering, all the data points will be gathered around the center. Okay, then the goal

of PCA is to create an n-by and transformation matrix T, which is applied here, to make a new

data matrix, n prime, from n. So the matrix, this T is not that big because it depends on n,

that n, because it is applied as n. So the i column of T, if we multiply n and T, the i column of T

creates the i principal component, because the first column of T will create the first column of

n prime, which will be the first column of first axis in the principal component. So each column of

T represents its axis or its principal component. So although the goal of PCA is to create a full

matrix T, we can reduce the dimensionality if we use one of the first r columns of T. Because

I think it's not shown in the slide, but this T is specifically created so that the first

principal component is on the left and the last principal component is on the right. So if you

use one of the r complements here, r columns of T, then you can say we take the most important

r columns of the matrix and if it represents, we reduce the dimension as well. Okay, so that's the

goal, goal T, finding T, transformation matrix. Okay, zero B. Why do we have to assume that the

given data matrix is zero B or zero centric? What will happen if the matrix is not zero centric?

Because the data, if we assume the data is not zero centric, the data will look like this one.

But in that case, if we compute the variance based on the definition of PCA, then the first

principal component is likely to point the mean of data, because it's where the variance is

great, great. So I mean the variance is basically a distance from the center, so the data mean should

work as a first principal component, which we don't want. We just want the variance inside the

data, not in terms of the relationship between the sensor and the data distribution. So this means

entering is essential for this state. We really need to do means and training for applying PCA.

I mean if you are not going to assume the means and training, then probably we should change the

definition of PCA to work with such a thing.

Okay, so here comes another man, because for the remaining slides, I'll talk about how

can we exactly find the transformation matrix. In fact, let's talk only about the first column,

E1 of T. How can we efficiently find the first column of E? Okay, so let's first define the

variance of data for any column T, because our goal is to maximize the variance. Our goal of

finding principal components is to maximize variance. So let me first define the variance,

and the variance of T, like for a column T is defined this way. We have a matrix M, and I is

a rowing matrix. So then I is a row or I instance of matrix. If we compute M, I with B, that means

we transform that person or that instance based on our first column of T, so some kind of principal

component. So we need a resulting scalar there. So we, because of the general centering, the mean

of the resulting scalar is always zero. So when we compute the variance, we can consider the mean

as zero. So if we compute the scalar for the I-point I-th row, and we compute if we subtract

a mean from it, and we experiment and we solve for both points, then that is the definition of

the data variance. Then because of the mean centering, this becomes a simple more, a square

term more of M times T, which is Mt transpose Mt, because M is a matrix, P is a vector,

which becomes P transpose M transpose Mt. What it means is, if we define the variance,

if you compute the variance for a single column T, then that variance is the same as this form,

P transpose M transpose Mt, where M is a data matrix. Then our goal is to maximize the column T

that maximizes this variance. So in another view, our goal of optimization is to find the T

such that it maximizes this form, where M is an input, M is a constant. Given M,

which T will maximize this value. That is the question that we have.

Here come all the reasons why we studied all these linear algebra things, because to find a

solution to that optimization problem is related to the concepts that we learned, just from the

previous marks. Let's find some alternatives to have a better understanding of the thing.

First of all, this variance of T is between lambda mean and lambda max, where lambda mean

is the smallest identity value of M transpose M, and lambda max is the largest identity value of

M transpose M. So this is one of the reasons, or we can say it's a theorem. And we can easily prove it.

So first, we are given T transpose M transpose Mt, which is the definition of the variance,

with the correct expression. But M transpose T, M transpose M, can be identity composed,

because M transpose M is a symmetric matrix. So because of that, it is a diagonalizable,

so we can apply identity composition to M transpose M, which gives us Q lambda Q transpose,

where Q contains the eigenvectors of M transpose M. That is the least I didn't notice. Then,

because of how it looks, we can rewrite it a little bit. So then there is lambda in the center,

Q transpose T is at the right side and on the left side. Then let's call this Q transpose T as Y.

Let's define that as Y for simplicity. Then we know that Y should always be a beauty factor.

Why? Because if you compute the square root of Y, that means it equals to Q transpose T,

that will give us Y transpose Y, which gives us Q transpose T transpose Q transpose T,

which gives us the square root of Q transpose T. But here we know that Q is ordinal. Why is that?

Because we have a great property here. Q of this symmetric matrix is always ordinal. We know that

because of the great property of the symmetry matrix. So if we go back, we go back, sorry, here.

Because of that, this QQ transpose is always an identity, because Q is ordinal, which gives us

T transpose T. And T is always a unique vector by definition, because we consider T only to be a

beauty factor by our condition. So it's always one. So what we know is if we write the original

variance form in this way, this Q transpose T is always a unique vector. Then what we have is,

if we rewrite SQ transpose T as Y, then we have the variance in this form, Y transpose lambda Y.

So lambda is a diagonal matrix, right? Diagonal matrix.

We have a lambda matrix here, and Y transpose here, Y transpose here. And there are item values,

lambda 1 to lambda n, all n transpose n. Since it's diagonal, we can decompose this whole

equation into this multiple item values, which gives us this new form of this equation.

So this, the original variance is written in this way, which is written that way, and it becomes

this one. The summation of lambda i times the square of yi. It's just a, so what I really want

to say is the result is a simple weighted average of this item numbers, because yi comes from a

unique vector. So y is a unique vector whose norm is one. So if we divide y into multiple elements,

then what we really want to do here by multiplying y with item value is, based on how this y is

formulated, this always is the weighted combination of lambda i, which is the item value. So based on

yi, based on how we determine this yi, the maximum of this thing is lambda n. If we give it all the

ways to the lambda n, or it can become lambda mean if we determine y to be so that it becomes the

minimum. So this last sentence is what brings our alteration, because our variance is rewritten

as the weighted average of the item values. We know that the maximum is the largest value,

and the minimum is the smallest value. We cannot go beyond this code because of how it's written.

Any questions so far? No? Okay. Okay. So let's go to the second operation. I mean, we don't have

many more slides, so I don't mean this anymore. So the second operation is the variance. So we

know that the scope of this variance is between lambda mean and the bounds. We know that it becomes

lambda max only when our team, our column of the transformation matrix is the principal item

vector. So it is really a thing that we want to prove. Why is that? Because our variance is,

as again, is basically a weighted average of the item values of the matrix M transpose M.

And obviously, the maximum is achieved when y1 is 1 and all the other elements in y are 0,

because we have assumed that these lambdas are sorted in a decreasing way. So lambda 1 is always

the principal item value. So obviously, the lambda 1 would be chosen if y1 is 1 and all the other

elements are x4. So since y1 is 1, the first element of this y is 1, that means the first

element of Q transpose T is 1. That means T is corresponding to the item vector, the principal

item vector. Because if you write it in this way, that since we only care about the first

element of this matrix, that means we only care about the first column,

Q, right? Because there is a transpose. So this can be rewritten as V1 transpose T.

And we know that V1 transpose T becomes 1 for the unit vector T only when T is V1,

only when they are the same. So basically, this is a way that we show that only when T equals V1,

we can say the variance is maximized as the lambdas. Since we want to know the unit vector,

we conclude that T equals V1. So it was a long way. It was a long way. But the conclusion is

simple. I mean, as a person who just want to apply TCA, we don't have to know all these things, but

we are still a friend. So let me go back to the question. How can we efficiently find the first

column T? The answer is we know that our G1, our solution, our first column transformation matrix

is the principal item vector of M transpose M, which gives us the corresponding item value M

around lambdas based on our previous observations 1 and 2. Then what do we have for that observation?

M transpose M is the matrix matrix. It's diagonal. And we're interested in the principal

item vector for doing PCA. So we can run power regression. We run power regression to the matrix

M transpose M to find the first transformation vector. And then we can apply power regression

again and again to find more transformation vectors from M transpose M. Because T2, the second

column of the transformation matrix, is the second principal item vector of M transpose M.

So in fact, M transpose M is often called the covariance matrix of center data, because it

almost represents the covariance of data. I mean, the real definition of the covariance

matrix is mostly in a statistical way, but informally we can say M transpose M is a covariance

matrix. So when you say to a person that, hey, PCA is just finding the principal item vectors

of the covariance matrix of data, that claim is almost correct. People will say that you

know something about PCA, because that's how people actually call PCA. Final slide. A real summary.

PCA is widely used for dimensional order reduction because of its three mathematical properties.

By keeping the first four columns of M prime, that all N columns. I mean, if we had to run PCA to

define all the columns of T, then it's slow. We do not want to do that. But at least for a few

columns which he was most meaningful accesses in the new phase, then PCA and the power iteration

are greatest. Because we know that the column has two of the greatest variance. So M prime can

represent the same information even with a smaller R, assuming that the true, I mean the empirical

rank of the matrix is smaller than M. So that's all. Any questions?

No? Yeah.

Yeah.

Well, okay. I'm not an expert in neural network compression. So Torbocon is mostly a compression

method. And so there are many ways to compress the method, like a neural network. One way is,

for instance, quantization, which gives us a way to represent, for instance, an 8-bit integer into

a 3-bit integer or even 2 or 4-bit integer. That quantization is one of the most popular ways to

quantize a neural network. And if you learn a transformer, then there is a concept called

KBK. The transformer computes the whole pair attention between the input tokens. But for the,

okay, I'll explain it later. But I can say the Torbocon is too difficult to cover in our course,

because it requires a lot of knowledge on the transformer, deep learning, or such a thing.

So probably I can't see when I will be able to talk about it, but I think it would be a little

hard to do it. But we're going to deal with some knowledge on deep learning later. It's course,

like some knowledge of machine learning. So probably at the end of the course,

if we have some time, probably we can do it. Okay. What I can say is Torbocon is not that amazing.

It's not super cool technique. I guess it's more about the broadcasting. Okay. More questions?

That R value is also just empirical value, just threshold.

Yeah, empirical value. But the good thing is R is not like K in things. Because,

so one important property for running algorithm is incrementality.

Good thing is we don't have to pre-specify R before running it, because we can incrementally

find new R, like new column, new column over time. So we can stop when the new axis does not give us

sufficient information. So it's better than fixing R before we run all these power operators.

So that was too, we can decide to set to how sufficient XR is.

It's hard to answer. So like in K-means, first of all, I can think there can be some empirical

ways. Because for instance, in K-means you remember for like meat plot, right? When the

variance decreases sharply, then we can stop at that R problem that is possible for an

algorithm that is colored. Or we can probably understand and transpose them. And if we can,

like for instance, efficiently estimate the rank of the matrix and transpose them,

then we can use the information of that rank to find, for instance, a suitable R.

But yeah, it's mostly an empirical in many cases. And in fact, R is mostly completed by the constraint

that we have rather than the property of the data. For instance, if I want to visualize the

data into two-dimensional space, then R equals two, because we want two-dimensional space. Or if we

want 10-dimensional view data because of the constraint in our memory, then R equals 10.

So it's mostly likely a failure that is chosen by an engineer.

Okay, so because it's time, let me quickly finish our class of eight. So we learned the

introduction and today was a little bit of mathematical class. We learned some very

notions of linear algebra and we learned a super cool important operator PCA, which is

used for a lot of purposes in base-pointing learning. So that's it for today and see you next week.

